Chap: II:d 1: But the forehead of Urizen gathering. And his eyes pale with anguish, his lips Blue & changing; in tears and bitter Contrition he prepar'd his Bow. 2: Form'd of Ribs: that in his dark solitude When obscur'd in his forests fell monsters. Arose. For his dire Contemplations Rush'd down like floods from his mountains In torrents of mud settling thick With Eggs of unnatural production Forthwith hatching; some howl'd on his hills Some in vales; some aloft flew in air 3: Of these: an enormous dread Serpent Scaled and poisonous horned Approach'd Urizen even to his knees As he sat on his dark rooted Oak. 4: With his horns he push'd furious. Great the conflict & great the jealousy In cold poisons: but Urizen smote him 5: First he poison'd the rocks with his blood Then polish'd his ribs, and his sinews Dried: laid them apart till winter; Then a Bow black prepar'd; on this Bow. A poisoned rock plac'd in silence: He utter'd these words to the Bow. 6: O Bow of the clouds of secresy: O nerve of that lust form'd monster! Send this rock swift, invisible thro' The black clouds, on the bosom of Fuzon 7: So saying, In torment of his wounds. He bent the enormous ribs slowly; A circle of darkness! then fixed The sinew in its rest: then the Rock Poisonous source! plac'd with art, lifting dif- -ficult Its weighty bulk: silent the rock lay. 8: While Fuzon his tygers unloosing Thought Urizen slain by his wrath. I am God. said he. eldest of things! 9: Sudden sings the rock. swift & invisible On Fuzon flew. enter'd his bosom; His beautiful visage, his tresses. That gave light to the mornings of heaven Were smitten with darkness. deform'd And outstretch'd on the edge of the fo- -rest 10: But the rock fell upon the Earth, Mount Sinai. in Arabia. Chap: III: 1: The Globe shook; and Urizen seated On black clouds his sore wound anointed The ointment flow'd down on the void Mix'd with blood; here the snake gets her poison 2: With difficulty & great pain; Urizen Lifted on high the dead corse: On his shoulders he bore it to where A Tree hung over the Immensity 3: For when Urizen shrunk away From Eternals, he sat on a rock Barren; a rock which himself From redounding fancies had petrified Many tears fell on the rock, Many sparks of vegetation; Soon shot the pained root Of Mystery. under his heel: It grew a thick tree; he wrote In silence his book of iron: Till the horrid plant bending its boughs Grew to roots when it felt the earth And again sprung to many a tree. 4: Amaz'd started Urizen! when He beheld himself compassed round And high roofed over with trees He arose but the stems stood so thick He with difficulty and great pain Brought his Books. all but the Book Of 