Darkness round Los: heat was not; for  bound up Into fiery spheres from his fury The gigantic flames trembled and hid 10: Coldness, darkness, obstruction, a Solid Without fluctuation. hard as adamant Black as marble of Egypt; impenetrable Bound in the fierce raging Immortal. And the seperated fires froze in A vast solid without fluctuation. Bound in his expanding clear senses Chap: II 1: The Immortal stood frozen amidst The vast rock of eternity; times And times; a night of vast durance: Impatient, stifled, stiffend, hardned. 2: Till impatience no longer could bear The hard bondage. rent; rent. the vast  solid With a crash from immense to immense 3: Crack'd across into numberless frag- -ments The Prophetic wrath, strug'ling for vent Hurls apart. stamping furious to dust And crumbling with bursting sobs; heaves The black marble on high into fragments 4: Hurl'd apart on all sides, as a falling Rock; the innumerable fragments away Fell asunder; and horrible vacuum Beneath him & on all sides round 5: Falling, falling! Los fell & fell Sunk precipitant heavy down down Times on times, night on night, day on day Truth has bounds. Error none; falling  falling: Years on years, and ages on ages Still he fell thro' the void, still a void Found for falling day & night without  end. For tho' day or night was not; their spaces Were measurd by his incessant whirls In the horrid vacuity bottomless. 6: The Immortal revolving; indignant First in wrath threw his limbs, like the babe New born into our world: wrath subsided And contemplative thoughts first arose Then aloft his head rear'd in the Abyss And his downward-borne fall. chang'd oblique 7: Many ages of groans; till there grew Branchy forms. organizing the Human Into finite inflexible organs. 8: Till in process from falling he bore Sidelong on the purple air. wafting The weak breeze in efforts oerwearied 9: Incessant the falling Mind labour'd Organizing itself: till the Vacuum Became element. pliant to rise. Or to fall, or to swim, or to fly: With ease searching the dire vacuity Chap: III 1: The Lungs heave incessant, dull and  heavy For as yet were all other parts formless Shiv'ring: clinging around like a cloud Dim & glutinous as the white Polypus Driv'n by waves & englob'd on the tide. 2: And the unformed part crav'd repose Sleep began: the Lungs heave on the wave Weary overweigh'd, sinking beneath In a stifling black fluid he woke 3: He arose on the waters. but soon Heavy falling his organs like roots Shooting out from the seed, shot beneath; And a vast world of waters around him In furious torrents began. 4: Then he sunk, & around his spent Lungs Began intricate pipes that drew in The spawn of the waters. Outbranching An 