Mr Jacko's he knows what riding is  & his wife is
the most agreeable woman you hardly know she has a tongue in her head
and he is the funniest fellow. & I do believe he'll go in partnership with
his master. & they have black servants lodge at their house I never saw
such a place in my life he says he has Six & twenty rooms in
his house. and I believe it & he is not such a liar as Quid thinks
he is.  Poo Poo hold your tongue hold your
tongue. said the Lawgiver. this quite  provokd Miss Gittipin to interrupt
her in her  favourite topic & she proceeded to use every Provoking speech
more
that ever she could. & he bore it  ^  like a Saint than a Lawgiver and 
with great Solemnity he addressd the company in these words
They call women the weakest vessel but I think they are the strongest
A girl has always more tongue than a boy I have seen a little brat
no higher than a nettle & she had as much tongue. as a city clark
but a boy would be such a fool not have any thing to say and if any
body  askd him a question he would put his head into a hole & hide
it. I am sure I take but little pleasure you have as much pleasure
as I have. there I stand & bear every  fools insult. if I had only
myself to care for. I'd wring off their noses
To this Scopprell  answerd. I think the  Ladies discourses Mr Steelyard
are some of them more improving than any book, that is the way
I have got some of my knowledge
Then said Miss Gittipin Mr Scopprell do you know the song of Phebe
and Jellicoe_ no Miss said Scopprell __ then she repeated these
verses while Steelyard  walkd about the room
Phebe drest like  beauties Queen
Jellicoe in faint peagreen
Sitting all beneath a grot
Where the little lambkins trot
Maidens dancing loves a sporting
All the country folks a courting
Susan Johnny Bet & Joe
Lightly tripping on a row
Happy people who can be
In happiness  compard with ye
The Pilgrim with his crook & hat
Sees your happiness  compleat
A charming Song indeed miss said Scopprell 
here they  recievd a summons for a merry making at the Philosophers
house

