     In the Moon, is a certain Island near by a mighty continent, which small
 island seems to have some affinity to England, & what is more extraordinary the
 people are so much alike & their language so much the same that you would
 think you was among your frien ds . in this Island dwells three Philosophers 
 Suction, the Epicurean, Quid the Cynic, & Sipsop the Pythagorean. I call them
 by the names of those sects  tho' the sects are not ever  mentiond there as being 
 quite out of date however the things still remain, and the vanities are the
 same. the three Philosophers sat together thinking of nothing. in comes -
 Etruscan Column the Antiquarian & after an abundance of Enquiries to
 no purpose sat himself down & described something that nobody  listend to
 so they were  employd when M rs Gimblet came in  the corners of her  
 mouth  seemd I  dont know how. but very odd as if she hoped you had not
 an ill opinion of her. to be sure we are all poor creatures, well she seated
 &     seemd  to listen with great attention while the Antiquarian  seemd  
 to be talking of virtuous cats. but it was not so. she was thinking of
 the shape of her eyes & mouth & he was thinking. of his eternal fame
 the three Philosophers at this time were each endeavour   ingto conceal   
  his laughter. (not at them but) at his own imagination, this was the  situ   
  ationof this improving company. when in a great hurry, Inflammable Gass
 the Wind finder.  enterd . they  seemd to rise & salute each other
 Etruscan Column & Inflammable Gass.  fixd their eyes on each other. their
 tongues went in question & answer, but their thoughts were otherwise  employd  
 I  dont like his eyes said Etruscan Column. he's a foolish puppy said
       
 Inflammable Gass, smiling on him. the 3 Philosophers  the Cynic  
 smiling the Epicurean seeming  studying the flame of the candle & 
 the Pythagorean playing with the cat.  listend with open mouths to the
 edifying discourses.
 Sir said the Antiquarian I have seen these works & I do affirm that they
 are no such thing. they seem to me to be the most wretched paltry flimsy Stuff
 that ever ___ What d'ye say What dye say said  Inffammable InflammableGass, why  
 why I wish I could s  you write so. Sir said the Antiquarian. according 
 to my opinion. the author is an errant blockhead.__ Your reason Your reason
 said Inflammable Gass_ why why I think it very abominable to call a man
 a blockhead that you know nothing of._ . Reason Sir said the A  tiquarian 
 I'll' give you an example for your reason   As I was walking  ng the 
   vast  
 street I saw a  ^number of swallows on the   rails of an
  old Gothic square they  seemd to be going on their passage, as Pliny says 
 as I was looking up. a little outre' fellow pulling me by the sleeve cries  
 pray Sir who do all they belong to, I  turnd myself about with great
   