       Chap: 1    
    
 The Creation of the Natural Man.
 1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth 
 2 And the earth was without form and void. and darkness was upon the face
 of the deep & the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters
 3 And God said Let there be light and there was light
 4 And God saw the light that it was good & God divided the light from the darkness
 5 And God called the light day & the darkness he called night & the evening & the
 morning were the first day.
 6 And God said Let there be a fimament in the midst of the waters and Let
 it divide the waters from the waters
 7 And God made the firmament & divided the waters which were under the firmament
 from the waters which were above the firmament and it was so  day  
 8 And God called the firmament heaven. & the evening & the morning were the second 
 9 And God said Let the waters under the heaven be  gatherd   together into one place
 and let the dry land appear and it was so.
 10 And God called the dry land earth. & the gathering together of waters called he 
 seas and God saw that it was good.
 11 And God said Let the earth bring forth grass & the herb yielding seed and 
 the fruit tree yielding fruit after its kind whose seed is in itself upon 
 the earth and it was so
 12 And the earth brought forth grass & herb yielding seed and the tree yielding 
 fruit whose seed is in itself after its kind and God saw that it was good 
 13 And the evening & the morning were the third day.
 14 And God said Let there be lights in the firmament of heaven to divide the 
 day from the night and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days
 and for years: 
 15 And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon
 the earth and it was so.
 16 And God made two great lights, the greater light to rule the day and the
 lesser light to rule the night he made the stars also.
 17 And God set them in the firmament of heaven to give light upon the earth 
 18 And to rule over the day and over the night and to divide the light from
 the darkness 
   