56
Then Los heaved his thund'ring Bellows on the Valley  of Middlesex
And thus he chaunted his Song: the Daughters of Albion  reply
What may Man be? who can tell! But what may Woman  be?
To have power over Man from Cradle to corruptible  Grave.
He who is an Infant, and whose Cradle is a Manger
Knoweth the Infant sorrow: whence it came, and where  it goeth,
And who weave it a Cradle of the grass that withereth  away.
This World is all a Cradle for the erred wandering  Phantom:
Rock'd by Year, Month, Day & Hour; and every two  Moments
Between. dwells a Daughter of Beulah. to feed the  Human Vegetable
Entune: Daughters of Albion. your hymning Chorus  mildly!
Cord of affection thrilling extatic on the iron  Reel:
To the golden Loom of Love! to the moth-labourd  Woof
A Garment and Cradle weaving for the infantine  Terror:
For fear; at entering the gate into our World of  cruel
Lamentation: it flee back & hide in Non-Entity's dark  wild
Wh e dwells the Spectre of Albion: destroyer of  Definite Form.
The Sun shall be a Scythed Chariot of Britain: the  Moon; a Ship
In the British Ocean! Created by Los's Hammer;  measured out
Into Days & Nights & Years & Months, to travel with my  feet
Over these desolate rocks of Albion; O daughters of  despair:
Rock the Cradle, and in mild melodies tell me where  found
What you have enwoven with so much tears & care? so  much
Tender artifice: to laugh: to weep: to learn: to  know;
Remember! recollect! what dark befel in wintry  days
O it was lost for ever! and we found it not: it  came
And wept at our wintry Door: Look! look! behold!  Gwendolen
Is become a Clod of Clay! Merlin is a Worm of the  Valley!
Then Los uttered with Hammer & Anvil; Chaunt!  revoice!
I mind not your laugh: and your frown I not fear!  and
You must my dictate obey from your gold-beam'd Looms;  trill
Gentle to Albions Watchman. on Albions mountains;  reeccho
And rock the Cradle while! Ah me! Of that Eternal  Man
And of the cradled Infancy in his bowels of  compassion:
Who fell beneath his instruments of husbandry &  became
Subservient to the clods of the furrow! the cattle and  even
The emmet and earth-Worm are his superiors & his  lords.
Then the response came warbling from trilling Looms in  Albion
We Women tremble at the light therefore! hiding  fearful
The Divine Vision with Curtain & Veil & fleshly  Tabernacle
Los utter'd; swift as the rattling thunder upon the  mountains
Look back into the Church Paul! Look! Three Women  around
The Cross; O Albion why didst thou a Female Will  Create?
