30
And the Two that escaped; were the Emanation of Los &  his
Spectre: for whereever the Emanation goes, the  Spectre
Attends her as her Guard, & Los's Emanation is  named
Enitharmon. & his Spectre is named Urthona: they  knew
Not where to flee: they had been on a visit to Albions  Children
And they strove to weave a Shadow of the Emanation
To hide themselves: weeping & lamenting for the  Vegetation
Of Albions Children. fleeing thro Albions vales in  streams of gore
Being not irritated by insult bearing insulting  benevolences
They percieved that corporeal friends are spiritual  enemies
They saw the Sexual Religion in its embryon  Uncircumcision
And the Divine hand was upon them bearing them thro  darkness
Back safe to their Humanity as doves to their  windows:
Therefore the Sons of Eden praise Urthonas Spectre in  Songs
Because he kept the Divine Vision in time of  trouble.
They wept & trembled: & Los put forth his hand, & took  them in,
Into his Bosom; from which Albion shrunk in dismal  pain;
Rending the fibres of Brotherhood & in Feminine  Allegories
Inclosing Los: but the Divine Vision appeard with  Los
Following Albion into his Central Void among his  Oaks.
And Los prayed and said. O Divine Saviour arise
Upon the Mountains of Albion as in ancient time.  Behold!
The Cities of Albion seek thy face, London groans in  pain
From Hill to Hill & the Thames laments along the  Valleys
The little Villages of Middlesex & Surrey hunger &  thirst
The Twenty-eight Cities of Albion stretch their hands  to thee:
Because of the Opressors of Albion in every City &  Village:
They mock at the Labourers limbs! they mock at his  starvd Children.
They buy his Daughters that they may have power to  sell his Sons:
They compell the Poor to live upon a crust of bread by  soft mild arts;
They reduce the Man to want: then give with pomp &  ceremony-
The praise of Jehovah is chaunted from lips of hunger  & thirst!
Humanity knows not of Sex: wherefore are Sexes in  Beulah?
In Beulah the Female lets down her beautiful  Tabernacle;
Which the Male enters magnificent between her  Cherubim:
And becomes One with her mingling condensing in Self- love
The Rocky Law of Condemnation & double Generation, &  Death.
Albion hath enterd the Loins the place of the Last  Judgment:
And Luvah hath drawn the Curtains around Albion in  Vala's bosom
The Dead awake to Generation! Arise O Lord. & rend the  Veil!
So Los in lamentations followd Albion. Albion  coverd.
His
