29 Then the Divine Vision like a silent Sun appeard  above Albions dark rocks: setting behind the Gardens of  Kensington On Tyburns River, in clouds of blood: where was mild  Zion Hills Most ancient promontory. and in the Sun. a Human Form  appear'd And thus the Voice Divine went forth upon the rocks of  Albion I elected Albion for my glory; I gave to him the  Nations, Of the whole Earth. He was the Angel of my Presence:  and all The Sons of God were Albions Sons: and Jerusalem was  my joy. The Reactor hath hid himself thro envy. I behold  him. But you cannot behold him till he be reveald in his  System Albions Reactor must have a Place prepard: Albion must  Sleep The Sleep of Death. till the Man of Sin & Repentance  be reveald, Hidden in Albions Forests he lurks; he admits of no  Reply From Albion; but hath founded his Reaction into a  Law Of Action, for Obedience to destroy the Contraries of  Man He hath compelld Albion to become a Punisher & hath  possessd Himself of Albions Forests & Wilds: and Jerusalem is  taken! The City of the Woods in the Forest of Ephratah is  taken! London is a stone of her ruins; Oxford is the dust of  her walls! Sussex & Kent are her scatterd garments! Ireland her  holy place! And the murderd bodies of her little ones are Scotland  and Wales The Cities of the Nations are the smoke of her  consummation The Nations are her dust! ground by the chariot  wheels Of her lordly conquerors, her palaces levelld with the  dust I come that I may find a way for my banished ones to  return Fear not O little Flock I come: Albion shall rise  again. So saying, the mild Sun inclosd the Human Family. Forthwith from Albions darkning locks came two  Immortal forms Saying We alone are escaped. O merciful Lord and  Saviour, We flee from the interiors of Albions hills and  mountains! From his Valleys Eastward: from Amalek Canaan &  Moab, Beneath his vast ranges of hills surrounding  Jerusalem. Albion walkd on the steps of fire before his Halls And Vala walkd with him in dreams of soft deluding  slumber. He looked up & saw the Prince of Light with splendor  faded Then Albion ascended mourning into the porches of his  Palace Above him rose a Shadow from his wearied  intellect: Of lng gold, pure, perfect, holy: in white linen  pure he hoverd A sweet entrancing self-delusion a watry vision of  Albion Soft exulting in existence; all the Man absorbing! Albion fell upon his face prostrate before the watry  Shadow Saying O Lord whence is this change: thou knowest I am  nothing! And Vala trembled & coverd her face! & her locks were  spread on the pavement We heard astonishd at the Vision & our hearts trembled  within us; We heard the voice of slumberous Albion. and thus he  spake. Idolatrous to his own Shadow words of eternity  uttering! O I am nothing when I enter into judgment with  thee! If thou withdraw thy breath I die & vanish into  Hades If thou dost lay thine hand upon me behold I am  silent! If thou withhold thine hand; I perish like a fallen  leaf: O I am nothing: and to nothing must return again: If thou withdraw thy breath. Behold I am oblivion. He ceasd; the shadowy voice was silent: but the cloud  hoverd over their heads In golden wreathes. the sorrow of Man; & the balmy  drops fell down. And lo! that son of Man that Shadowy Spirit of mild  Albion: Luvah descended from the cloud in terror Albion  rose: Indignant rose the awful Man. & turnd his back on  Vala. We heard the voice of Albion starting from his  sleep! Whence is this voice crying Enion; that soundeth in my  ears? O cruel pity! O dark deceit: can love seek for  dominion? And Luvah strove to gain dominion over Albion They strove together above the Body where Vala was  inclosd And the dark Body of Albion left prostrate upon the  crystal pavement. Coverd with boils from head to foot: the terrible  smitings of Luvah. Then frownd the fallen Man, and put forth Luvah from  his presence Saying. Go and Die the Death of Man, for Vala the  sweet wanderer. I will turn the volutions of your ears outward. and  bend your nostrils Downward. and your fluxile eyes englob'd roll round in  fear: Your withring lips and tongue shrink up into a narrow  circle, Till into narrow forms you creep: go take your fiery  way: And learn what tis to absorb the Man you Spirits of  Pity & Love. They heard the voice and fled swift as the winters  setting sun And now the human blood foamd high. the Spirits Luvah  & Vala Went down the Human Heart where Paradise & its joys  abounded. In jealous fears & fury & rage, & flames roll round  their fervid feet: And the vast form of Nature like a serpent playd  before them And as they fled in folding fires & thunders of the  deep: Vala shrunk in like the dark sea that leaves its slimy  banks And from her bosom Luvah fell far as the east and  west. And the vast form of Nature like a serpent rolld  between Whether of Jerusalems or Valas ruins congenerated we  know not: All is confusion: all is tumult. & we alone are  escaped. So spoke the fugitives; they joind the Divine Family.  trembling. 