54
In Great Eternity, every particular Form gives forth  or Emanates
Its own peculiar Light & the Form is the Divine  Vision
And the Light is his Garment This is Jerusalem in  every Man
A Tent & Tabernacle of Mutual Forgiveness Male &  Female Clothings.
And Jerusalem is called Liberty among the Children of  Albion
But Albion fell down a Rocky fragment from Eternity  hurld
By his own Spectre. who is the Reasoning Power in  every Man
Into his own Chaos which is the Memory between Man &  Man
The silent broodings of deadly revenge springing from  the
All powerful parental affection. fills Albion from  head to foot
Seeing his Sons assimilate with Luvah, bound in the  bonds
Of spiritual Hate. from which springs Sexual Love as  iron chains
He tosses like a cloud outstretchd among Jerusalems  Ruins
Which overspread all the Earth, he groans among his  ruind porches
Reason
Pity  Wrath
This World
Desire
But the Spectre like a hoar frost & a Mildew rose over  Albion
Saying, I am God O Sons of Men! I am your Rational  Power!
Am I not Bacon & Newton & Locke who teach Humility to  Man!
Who teach Doubt & Experiment & my two Wings Voltaire:  Rousseau.
Where is that Friend of Sinners! that Rebel against my  Laws!
Who teaches Belief to the Nations. & an unknown  Eternal Life
Come hither into the Desart & turn these stones to  bread.
Vain foolish Man! wilt thou believe without  Experiment?
And build a World of Phantasy upon my Great Abyss!
A World of Shapes in craving lust & devouring  appetite
So spoke the hard cold constrictive Spectre he is  named Arthur
Constricting into Druid Rocks round Canaan Agag & Aram  & Pharoh
Then Albion drew England into his bosom in groans &  tears
But she stretchd out her starry Night in Spaces  against him. like
A long Serpent, in the Abyss of the Spectre which  augmented
The Night with Dragon wings coverd with stars & in the  Wings 
Jerusalem & Vala appeard: & above between the Wings  magnificent 
The Divine Vision dimly appeard in clouds of blood  weeping.
