16 Hampstead Highgate Finchley Hendon Muswell hill: rage  loud Before Bromions iron Tongs & glowing Poker reddening  fierce Hertfordshire glows with fierce Vegetation! in the  Forests The Oak frowns terrible, the Beech & Ash & Elm  enroot Among the Spiritual fires: loud the Corn fields  thunder along The Soldiers fife; the Harlots shriek; the Virgins  dismal groan The Parents fear: the Brothers jealousy: the Sisters  curse Beneath the Storms of Theotormon & the thundring  Bellows Heaves in the hand of Palamabron who in Londons  darkness Before the Anvil. watches the bellowing flames:  thundering The Hammer loud rages in Rintrahs strong grasp  swinging loud Round from heaven to earth down falling with heavy  blow Dead on the Anvil. where the red hot wedge groans in  pain He quenches it in the black trough of his Forge:  Londons River Feeds the dread Forge, trembling & shuddering along  the Valleys Humber & Trent roll dreadful before the Seventh  Furnace And Tweed & Tyne anxious give up their Souls for  Albions sake Lincolnshire Derbyshire Nottinghamshire  Leicestershire From Oxfordshire to Norfolk on the Lake of Udan  Adan Labour within the Furnaces. walking among the  Fires With Ladles huge & iron Pokers over the Island  white. Scotland pours out his Sons to labour at the  Furnaces Wales gives his Daughters to the Looms; England:  nursing Mothers Gives to the Children of Albion & to the Children of  Jerusalem From the blue Mundane Shell even to the Earth of  Vegetation Throughout the whole Creation which groans to be  deliverd Albion groans in the deep slumbers of Death upon his  Rock. Here Los fixd down the Fifty-two Counties of England &  Wales The Thirty-six of Scotland. & the Thirty-four of  Ireland With mighty power. when they fled out at Jerusalems  Gates Away from the Conflict of Luvah & Urizen, fixing the  Gates In the Twelve Counties of Wales & thence Gates looking  every way To the Four Points: conduct to England & Scotland &  Ireland And thence to all the Kingdoms & Nations & Families of  the Earth The Gate of Reuben in Carmarthenshire: the Gate of  Simeon in Cardiganshire; & the Gate of Levi in  Montgomeryshire The Gate of Judah Merionethshire: the Gate of Dan  Flintshire The Gate of Napthali, Radnorshire: the Gate of Gad  Pembrokeshire The Gate of Asher, Carnarvonshire the Gate of Issachar  Brecknokshire The Gate of Zebulun, in Anglesea & Sodor, so is Wales  divided. The Gate of Joseph, Denbighshire; the Gate of Benjamin  Glamorganshire For the protection of the Twelve Emanations of Albions  Sons And the Forty Counties of England are thus divided in  the Gates Of Reuben Norfolf, Suffolk. Essex, Simeon Lincoln  York Lancashire Levi. Middlesex Kent Surrey. Judah Somerset Glouster  Wiltshire, Dan. Cornwal Devon Dorset, Napthali, Warwick Leicester  Worcester Gad. Oxford Bucks Harford. Asher, Sussex Hampshire  Berkshire Issachar, Northampton Rutland Nottgham. Zebulun  Bedford Huntgn Camb Joseph Stafford Shrops Heref. Benjamin. Derby Cheshire  Monmouth; And Cumberland Northumberland Westmoreland & Durham  are Divided in the the Gates of Reuben Judah Dan &  Joseph And the Thirty-six Counties of Scotland. divided in  the Gates Of Reuben Kincard Haddntn Forfar, Simeon Ayr Argyll  Banff Levi Edinburh Roxbro Ross, Judah. Abrdeen Berwik  Dumfries Dan Bute Caitnes Clakmanan. Napthali Nairn Invernes  Linlithgo Gad Peebles Perth Renfru. Asher Sutherlan Sterling  Wigtoun Issachar Selkirk Dumbartn Glasgo. Zebulun Orkney  Shetland Skye Joseph Elgin Lanerk Kinros, Benjamin Kromarty Murra  Kirkubriht Governing all by the sweet delights of secret amorous  glances In Enitharmons Halls builded by Los & his mighty  Children All things acted on Earth are seen in the bright  Sculptures of Loss Halls & every Age renews its powers from these  Works With every pathetic story possible to happen from Hate  or Wayward Love & every sorrow & distress is carved  here Every Affinity of Parents Marriages & Friendships are  here In all their various combinations wrought with  wondrous Art All that can happen to Man in his pilgrimage of  seventy years Such is the Divine Written Law of Horeb & Sinai: And such the Holy Gospel of Mount Olivet &  Calvary: 