77 
To the Christians.
Devils are
False Religions
"Saul Saul"
"Why persecutest thou me,
I give you the end of a golden string,
Only wind it into a ball:
It will lead you in at Heavens gate,
Built in Jerusalems wall.
We are told to abstain from fleshly desires that we may lose no time from the
Work of the Lord. Every moment lost, is a moment that cannot be redeemed 
every pleasure that intermingles with the duty of our station is a folly unre-
-deemable & is planted like the seed of a wild flower among our wheat. All
the tortures of repentance. are tortures of self-reproach on account of our lea-
ving the Divine Harvest to the Enemy, the struggles of intanglement with in-
coherent roots. I know of no other Christianity and of no other Gospel than 
the liberty both of body & mind to exercise the Divine Arts of Imagination 
Imagination the real & eternal World of which this Vegetable Universe is 
but a faint shadow & in which we shall live in our Eternal or Imaginative 
Bodies, when these Vegetable Mortal Bodies are no more. The Apostles knew 
of no other Gospel. What were all their spiritual gifts? What is the Divine 
Spirit? is the Holy Ghost any other than an Intellectual Fountain? What is 
the Harvest of the Gospel & its Labours? What is that Talent which it is a 
curse to hide? What are the Treasures of Heaven which we are to lay up for 
ourselves, are they any other than Mental Studies & Performances? What 
are all the Gifts of the Gospel. are they not all Mental Gifts? Is God a 
Spirit who must be worshipped in Spirit & in Truth and are not the Gifts 
of the Spirit Every-thing to Man? O ye Religious discountenance every 
one among you who shall pretend to despise Art & Science! I call upon 
you in the Name of Jesus! What is the Life of Man but Art & Science? 
is it Meat & Drink? is not the Body more than Raiment? What is Mortality 
but the things relating to the Body, which Dies? What is Immortality but the 
things relating to the Spirit, which Lives Eternally! What is the Joy of Hea-
-ven but Improvement in the things of the Spirit? What are the Pains of Hell 
but Ignorance, Bodily Lust, Idleness & devastation of the things of the Spirit 
Answer this to yourselves, & expel from among you those who pretend to des-
-pise the labours of Art & Science, which alone are the labours of the Gos-
-pel: Is not this plain & manifest to the thought? Can you think at all, & 
not pronounce heartily! That to Labour in Knowledge. is to Build up Jerusa-
-lem: and to Despise Knowledge, is to Despise Jerusalem & her Builders. 
And remember: He who despises & mocks a Mental Gift in another; calling 
it pride & selfishness & sin; mocks Jesus the giver of every Mental Gift.
which always appear to the ignorance-loving Hypocrite, as Sins. but that 
which is a Sin in the sight of cruel Man. is not so in the sight of our kind God. 
Let every Christian as much as in him lies engage himself openly & publicly 
before all the World in some Mental pursuit for the Building up of Jerusalem
I stood among my valleys of the south 
And saw a flame of fire, even as a Wheel 
Of fire surrounding all the heavens: it went
From west to east against the current of 
Creation, and devourd all things in its loud 
Fury & thundering course round heaven & earth
By it the Sun was rolld into an orb:
By it the Moon faded into a globe. 
Travelling thro the night: for from its dire
And restless fury, Man himself shrunk up 
Into a little root a fathom long.
And I asked a Watcher & a Holy-One
Its Name? he answerd. It is the Wheel of Religion
I wept & said. Is this the law of Jesus
This terrible devouring sword turning every way
He answerd; Jesus died because he strove
Against the current of this Wheel: its Name 
Is Caiaphas, the dark Preacher of Death
Of sin, of sorrow, & of punishment;
Opposing Nature! It is Natural Religion
But Jesus is the bright Preacher of Life
Creating Nature from this fiery Law,
By self-denial & forgiveness of Sin:
Go therefore, cast out devils in Christs name
Heal thou the sick of spiritual disease
Pity the evil. for thou art not sent
To smite with terror & with punishments
Those that are sick. like to the Pharisees
Crucifying & encompasing sea & land
For proselytes to tyranny & wrath.
But to the Publicans & Harlots go!
Teach them True Happiness. but let no curse
Go forth out of thy mouth to blight their peace
For Hell is opend to Heaven; thine eyes beheld
The dungeons burst & the Prisoners set free.
England! awake! awake! awake!
Jerusalem thy Sister calls!
Why wilt thou sleep the sleep of death?
And close her from thy ancient walls.
Thy hills & valleys felt her feet.
Gently upon their bosoms move:
Thy gates beheld sweet Zions ways;
Then was a time of joy and love

And now the time returns again:
Our souls exult & Londons towers
Recieve the Lamb of God to dwell
In Englands green & pleasant bowers.
