49
The secret coverts of Albion & the hidden places of  America
Jerusalem Jerusalem! why wilt thou turn away
Come ye O Daughters of Beulah, lament for Og &  Sihon
Upon the Lakes of Ireland from Rathlin to  Baltimore;
Stand ye upon the Dargle from Wicklow to Drogheda
Come & mourn over Albion the White Cliff of the  Atlantic
The Mountain of Giants; all the Giants of Albion are  become
Weak! witherd! darkend! & Jerusalem is cast forth from  Albion.
They deny that they ever knew Jerusalem, or ever dwelt  in Shiloh
The Gigantic roots & twigs of the vegetating Sons of  Albion
Filld with the little-ones are consumed in the Fires  of their Altars
The vegetating Cities are burned & consumed from the  Earth:
And the Bodies in which all Animals & Vegetations. the  Earth & Heaven
Were containd in the All Glorious Imagination are  witherd & darkend:
The golden Gate of Havilah. and all the Garden of  God,
Was caught up with the Sun in one day of fury and  war:
The Lungs, the Heart, the Liver, shrunk away far  distant from Man
And left a little slimy substance floating upon the  tides.
In one night the Atlantic Continent was caught up with  the Moon,
And became an Opake Globe far distant clad with moony  beams,
The Visions of Eternity, by reason of narrowed  perceptions,
Are become weak Visions of Time & Space, fix'd into  furrows of death;
Till deep dissimulation is the only defence an honest  man has left
O Polypus of Death O Spectre over Europe and Asia
Withering the Human Form by Laws of Sacrifice for  Sin
By Laws of Chastity & Abhorrence I am witherd up.
Striving to Create a Heaven in which all shall be pure  & holy
In their Own Selfhoods, in Natural Selfish Chastity to  banish Pity
And dear Mutual Forgiveness; & to become One Great  Satan
Inslavd to the most powerful Selfhood; to murder the  Divine Humanity
In whose sight all are as the dust & who chargeth his  Angels with folly;
Ah! weak & wide astray! Ah shut in narrow doleful  form!
Creeping in reptile flesh upon the bosom of the  ground:
The Eye of Man, a little narrow orb, closd up &  dark.
Scarcely beholding the Great Light; conversing with  the ground:
The Ear, a little shell, in small volutions shutting  out
True Harmonies, & comprehending great, as very  small:
The Nostrils, bent down to the earth & clos'd with  senseless flesh.
That odours cannot them expand, nor joy on them  exult:
The Tongue, a little moisture fills, a little food it  cloys,
A little sound it utters, & its cries are faintly  heard.
Therefore they are removed; therefore they have taken  root
In Egypt & Philistea: in Moab & Edom & Aram:
In the Erythrean Sea their Uncircuncision in Heart &  Loins
Be lost for ever & ever. then they shall arise from  Self,
By Self Annihilation into Jerusalems Courts & into  Shiloh
Shiloh the Masculine Emanation among the Flowers of  Beulah
Lo Shiloh dwells over France, as Jerusalem dwells over  Albion
Build & prepare a Wall & Curtain for Americas  shore!
Rush on: Rush on: Rush on! ye vegetating Sons of  Albion
The Sun shall go before you in Day; the Moon shall  go
Before you in Night. Come on! Come on! Come on! The  Lord
Jehovah is before, behind, above, beneath, around
He has builded the arches of Albions Tomb binding the  Stars
In merciful Order, bending the Laws of Cruelty to  Peace.
He hath placed Og & Anak, the Giants of Albion for  their Guards:
Building the Body of Moses in the Valley of Peor: the  Body
Of Divine Analogy; and Og & Sihon in the tears of  Balaam
The Son of Beor, have given their power to Joshua &  Caleb,
Remove from Albion, far remove these terrible  surfaces.
They are beginning to form Heavens & Hells in  immense
Circles; the Hells for food to the Heavens: food of  torment,
Food of despair: they drink the condemnd Soul &  rejoice
In cruel holiness, in their Heavens of Chastity &  Uncircumcision
Yet they are blameless & Iniquity must be imputed  only
To the State they are enterd into that they may be  deliverd:
Satan is the State of Death, & not a Human  existence:
But Luvah is named Satan. because he has enterd that  State.
A World where Man is by Nature the enemy of Man
Because the Evil is Created into a State. that Men
May be deliverd time after time evermore. Amen.
Learn therefore O Sisters to distinguish the Eternal  Human
That walks about among the stones of fire in bliss &  woe
Alternate! from those States or Worlds in which the  Spirit travels:
This is the only means to Forgiveness of Enemies
Therefore remove from Albion these terrible  Surfaces
And let wild seas & rocks close up Jerusalem away  from
The
