33 Turning his back to the Divine Vision. his  Spectrous Chaos before his face appeard: an Unformed Memory. Then spoke the Spectrous Chaos to Albion darkning  cold From the back & loins where dwell the Spectrous  Dead I am your Rational Power O Albion & that Human  Form You call Divine. is but a Worm seventy inches long That creeps forth in a night & is dried in the morning  sun In fortuitous concourse of memorys accumulated &  lost It plows the Earth in its own conceit. it overwhelms  the Hills Beneath its winding labyrinths. till a stone of the  brook Stops it in midst of its pride among its hills &  rivers Battersea & Chelsea mourn. London & Canterbury  tremble Their place shall not be found as the wind passes  over The ancient Cities of the Earth remove as a  traveller And shall Albions Cities remain when I pass over  them With my deluge of forgotten remembrances over the  tablet So spoke the Spectre to Albion. he is the Great  Selfhood Satan: Worshipd as God by the Mighty Ones of the  Earth Having a white Dot calld a Center from which branches  out A Circle in continual gyrations. this became a  Heart From which sprang numerous branches varying their  motions Producing many Heads three or seven or ten. & hands &  feet Innumerable at will of the unfortunate  contemplator Who becomes his food such is the way of the Devouring  Power And this is the cause of the appearance in the  frowning Chaos Albions Emanation which he had hidden in Jealousy Appeard now in the frowning Chaos prolific upon the  Chaos Reflecting back to Albion in Sexual Reasoning  Hermaphroditic Albion spoke. Who art thou that appearest in gloomy  pomp Involving the Divine Vision in colours of autumn  ripeness I never saw thee till this time. nor beheld life  abstracted Nor darkness immingled with light on my furrowd  field Whence camest thou: who art thou O loveliest? the  Divine Vision Is as nothing before thee. faded is all life and  joy Vala replied in clouds of tears Albions garment  embracing I was a City & a Temple built by Albions Children. I was a Garden planted with beauty I allured on hill &  valley The River of Life to flow against my walls & among my  trees Vala was Albions Bride & Wife in great Eternity The loveliest of the daughters of Eternity when in  day-break I emanated from Luvah over the Towers of Jerusalem And in her Courts among her little Children offering  up The Sacrifice of fanatic love? why loved I  Jerusalem: Why was I one with her embracing in the Vision of  Jesus Wherefore did I loving create love, which never  yet Immingled God & Man, when thou & I, hid the Divine  Vision In cloud of secret gloom which behold involve me round  about Know me now Albion; look upon me I alone am Beauty The Imaginative Human Form is but a breathing of  Vala I breathe him forth into the Heaven from my secret  Cave Born of the Woman to obey the Woman O Albion the  mighty For the Divine appearance is Brotherhood, but I am  Love 