63 63 Jehovah stood among the Druids in the Valley of  Annandale When the Four Zoas of Albion. the Four Living  Creatures, the Cherubim Of Albion tremble before the Spectre. in the starry  Harness of the Plow Of Nations. And their Names are Urizen & Luvah &  Tharmas & Urthona Luvah slew Tharmas the Angel of the Tongue & Albion  brought him To Justice in his own City of Paris. denying the  Resurrection Then Vala the Wife of Albion. who is the Daughter of  Luvah Took vengeance Twelve-fold among the Chaotic Rocks of  the Druids Where the Human Victims howl to the Moon & Thor &  Friga Dance the dance of death contending with Jehovah among  the Cherubim. The Chariot Wheels filled with Eyes rage along the  howling Valley In the Dividing of Reuben & Benjamin bleeding from  Chesters River The Giants & the Witches & the Ghosts of Albion dance  with Thor & Friga. & the Fairies lead the Moon along the  Valley of Cherubim Bleeding in torrents from Mountain to Mountain. a  lovely Victim And Jehovah stood in the Gates of the Victim. & he  appeared A weeping Infant in the Gates of Birth in the midst of  Heaven The Cities & Villages of Albion became Rock & Sand  Unhumanized The Druid Sons of Albion & the Heavens a Void around  unfathomable No Human Form but Sexual & a little weeping Infant  pale reflected Multitudinous in the Looking Glass of Enitharmon, on  all sides Around in the clouds of the Female. on Albions Cliffs  of the Dead Such the appearance in Cheviot: in the Divisions of  Reuben When the Cherubim hid their heads under their wings in  deep slumbers When the Druids demanded Chastity from Woman & all was  lost, How can the Female be Chaste O thou stupid Druid Cried  Los Without the Forgiveness of Sins in the merciful clouds  of Jehovah And without the Baptism of Repentance to wash away  Calumnies. and The Accusations of Sin that each may be Pure in their  Neighbours sight O when shall Jehovah give us Victims from his Flocks &  Herds Instead of Human Victims by the Daughters of Albion &  Canaan Then laugh'd Gwendolen & her laughter shook the  Nations & Familys of The Dead beneath Beulah from Tyburn to Golgotha. and  from Ireland to Japan. furious her Lions & Tygers & Wolves  sport before Los on the Thames & Medway. London & Canterbury groan  in pain Los knew not yet what was done: he thought it was all  in Vision In Visions of the Dreams of Beulah among the Daughters  of Albion Therefore the Murder was put apart in the Looking. Glass of Enitharmon He saw in Vala's hand the Druid Knife of Revenge & the  Poison Cup Of Jealousy, and thought it a Poetic Vision of the  Atmospheres Till Canaan rolld apart from Albion across the Rhine:  along the Danube And all the Land of Canaan suspended over the Valley  of Cheviot From Bashan to Tyre & from Troy to Gaza of the  Amalekite And Reuben fled with his head downwards among the  Caverns 