79 My tents are fall'n! my pillars are in ruins! my  children dashd Upon Egypts iron floors, & the marble pavements of  Assyria; I melt my soul in reasonings among the towers of  Heshbon; Mount Zion is become a cruel rock & no more dew Nor rain; no more the spring of the rock appears; but  cold Hard & obdurate are the furrows of the mountain of  wine & oil; The mountain of blessing is itself a curse & an  astonishment; The hills of Judea are fallen with me into the deepest  hell Away from the Nations of the Earth. & from the Cities  of the Nations; I walk to Ephraim. I seek for Shiloh: I walk like a  lost sheep Among precipices of despair: in Goshen I seek for  light In vain; and in Gilead for a physician and a  comforter. Goshen hath followd Philistea: Gilead hath joind with  Og! They are become narrow places in a little and dark  land: How distant far from Albion! his hills & his valleys  no more Recieve the feet of Jerusalem: they have cast me quite  away: And Albion is himself shrunk to a narrow rock in the  midst of the sea! The plains of Sussex & Surrey. their hills of flocks &  herds No more seek to Jerusalem nor to the sound of my Holy-ones. The Fifty-two Counties of England are hardend against  me As if I was not their Mother, they despise me & cast  me out London coverd the whole Earth. England encompassd the  Nations: And all the Nations of the Earth were seen in the  Cities of Albion: My pillars reachd from sea to sea: London beheld me  come From my east & from my west; he blessed me and  gave His children to my breasts, his sons & daughters to my  knees His aged parents sought me out in every city &  village: They discernd my countenance with joy; they shewd me  to their sons Saying Lo Jerusalem is here! she sitteth in our secret  chambers Levi and Judah & Issachar: Ephram. Manasseh, Gad and  Dan Are seen in our hills & valleys: they keep our flocks  & herds: They watch them in the night: and the Lamb of God  appears among us. The river Severn stayd his course at my command: Thames poured his waters into my basons and baths; Medway: mingled with Kishon: Thames recievd the  heavenly Jordan Albion gave me to the whole Earth to walk up & down;  to pour Joy upon every mountain; to teach songs to the  shepherd & plowman I taught the ships of the sea to sing the songs of  Zion Italy saw me, in sublime astonishment: France was  wholly mine: As my garden & as my secret bath; Spain was my  heavenly couch: I slept in his golden hills: the Lamb of God met me  there, There we walked as in our secret chamber among our  little ones They looked upon our loves with joy: they beheld our  secret joys: With holy raptures of adoration rapd sublime in the  Visions of God: Germany; Poland & the North wooed my footsteps they  found My gates in all their mountains & my curtains in all  their vales The furniture of their houses was the furniture of my  chamber Turkey & Grecia saw my instrments of music, they  arose They siezd the harp: the flute: the mellow horn of  Jerusalems joy They sounded thanksgivings in my courts; Egypt & Lybia  heard The swarthy sons of Ethiopia stood round the Lamb of  God Enquiring for Jerusalem: he led them up my steps to my  altar: And thou America! I once beheld thee but now behold no  more Thy golden mountains where my Cherubim & Seraphim  rejoicd Together among my little-ones. But now, my Altars run  with blood! My fires are corrupt! my incense is a cloudy  pestilence Of seven diseases! Once a continual cloud of  salvation. rose From all my myriads; once the Four-fold World rejoicd  among The pillars of Jerusalem, between my winged  Cherubim: But now I am closd out from them in the narrow  passages Of the valleys of destruction. into a dark land of  pitch & bitumen. From Albions Tomb afar and from the four-fold wonders  of God Shrunk to a narrow doleful form in the dark land of  Cabul; There is Reuben & Gad & Joseph & Judah & Levi, closd  up In narrow vales; I walk & count the bones of my  beloveds Along the Valley of Destruction. among these Druid  Temples Which overspread all the Earth in patriarchal pomp &  cruel pride Tell me O Vala thy purposes; tell me wherefore thy  shuttles Drop with the gore of the slain; why Euphrates is red  with blood Wherefore in dreadful majesty & beauty outside  appears Thy Masculine from thy Feminine hardening against the  heavens To devour the Human! Why dost thou weep upon the wind  among These cruel Druid Temples; O Vala! Humanity is far  above Sexual organization; & the Visions of the Night of  Beulah Where Sexes wander in dreams of bliss among the  Emanations Where the Masculine & Feminine are nurs'd into Youth &  Maiden By the tears & smiles of Beulahs Daughters till the  time of Sleep is past. Wherefore then do you realize these nets of beauty &  delusion In open day to draw the souls of the Dead into the  light. Till Albion is shut out from every Nation under  Heaven. En- 