20 
But when they saw Albion fall'n upon mild Lambeths  vale:
Astonish'd! Terrified! they hover'd over his Giant  limbs.
Then thus Jerusalem spoke, while Vala wove the veil of  tears:
Weeping in pleadings of Love, in the web of  despair.
Wherefore hast thou shut me into the winter of human  life
And clos'd up the sweet regions of youth and virgin  innocence:
Where we live, forgetting error, not pondering on  evil:
Among my lambs & brooks of water, among my warbling  birds:
Where we delight in innocence before the face of the  Lamb;
Going in and out before him in his love and sweet  affection.
Vala replied weeping & trembling, hiding in her  veil
When winter rends the hungry family and the snow  falls:
Upon the ways of men hiding the paths of man and  beast,
Then mourns the wanderer: then he repents his  wanderings & eyes
The distant forest; then the slave groans in the  dungeon of stone.
The captive in the mill of the stranger. sold for  scanty hire.
They view their former life: they number moments over  and over:
Stringing them on their remembrance as on a thread of  sorrow.
Thou art my sister and my daughter! thy shame is mine  also!
Ask me not of my griefs! thou knowest all my  griefs.
Jerusalem answer'd with soft tears over the  valleys.
O Vala what is Sin? that thou shudderest and  weepest
At sight of thy once lov'd Jerusalem! What is Sin but  a little
Error & fault that is soon forgiven; but mercy is not  a Sin
Nor pity nor love nor kind forgiveness! O! if I have  Sinned
Forgive & pity me; O! unfold thy Veil in mercy &  love!
Slay not my little ones, beloved Virgin daughter of  Babylon
Slay not my infant loves & graces, beautiful daughter  of Moab
I cannot put off the human form I strive but strive in  vain
When Albion rent thy beautiful net of gold and silver  twine;
Thou hadst woven it with art, thou hadst caught me in  the bands
Of love; thou refusedst to let me go! Albion beheld  thy beauty
Beautiful thro' our Love's comeliness, beautiful thro'  pity.
The Veil shone with thy brightness in the eyes of  Albion.
Because it inclosd pity & love; because we lov'd one-another!
Albion lov'd thee! he rent thy Veil! he embrac'd thee!  he lov'd thee!
Astonish'd at his beauty & perfection, thou forgavest  his furious love
I redounded from Albions bosom in my virgin  loveliness.
The Lamb of God reciev'd me in his arms he smil'd upon  us:
He made me his Bride & Wife: he gave thee to  Albion.
Then was a time of love! O why is it passed away!
Then Albion broke silence and with groans reply'd
