23

Jerusalem! Jerusalem! deluding shadow of Albion!
Daughter of my phantasy! unlawful pleasure! Albions  curse!
I came here with intention to annihilate thee! But
My soul is melted away. inwoven within the Veil
Hast thou again knitted the Veil of Vala, which I for  thee
Pitying rent in ancient times, I see it whole and  more
Perfect, and shining with beauty! But thou! O wretched  Father!
Jerusalem. reply'd, like a voice heard from a  sepulcher:
Father! once piteous! Is Pity. a Sin? Embalm'd in  Vala's bosom
In an Eternal Death for. Albions sake, our best  beloved.
Thou art my Father & my Brother: Why hast thou hidden  me,
Remote from the divine Vision: my Lord and  Saviour.
Trembling stood Albion at her words in jealous dark  despair
He felt that Love and Pity are the same; a soft  repose!
Inward complacency of Soul: a Self-annihilation!
I have erred! I am ashamed! and will never return  more;
I have taught my children sacrifices of cruelty: what  shall I answer?
I will hide it from Eternals! I will give myself for  my Children!
Which way soever I turn, I behold Humanity and  Pity!
He recoil'd: he rush'd outwards; he bore the Veil  whole away
His fires redound from his Dragon Altars in Errors  returning
He drew the Veil of Moral Virtue. woven for Cruel  Laws.
And cast it into the Atlantic Deep, to catch the Souls  of the Dead.
He stood between the Palm tree & the Oak of  weeping
Which stand upon the edge of Beulah; and there Albion  sunk
Down in sick pallid languor! These were his last  words, relapsing!
Hoarse from his rocks, from caverns of Derbyshire &  Wales
And Scotland, utter'd from the Circumference into  Eternity.
Blasphemous Sons of Feminine delusion! God in the  dreary Void
Dwells from Eternity. wide separated from the Human  Soul
But thou deluding Image by whom imbu'd the Veil I  rent
Lo here is Valas Veil whole. for a Law. a Terror & a  Curse!
And therefore God takes vengeance on me: from my clay-cold bosom
My children wander trembling victims of his Moral  Justice.
His snows fall on me and cover me while in the Veil I  fold
My dying limbs. Therefore O Manhood, if thou art  aught
But a meer Phantasy, hear dying Albions Curse!
May God who dwells in this dark Ulro & voidness,  vengeance take,
And draw thee down into this Abyss of sorrow and  torture,
Like me thy Victim. O that Death & Annihilation were  the same!
