3 SHEEPGOATS To the Public After my three years slumber on the banks of  the Ocean, I again display my Giant forms to the Public: My former Giants  & Fairies having reciev'd the highest reward possible: the and of those with whom to be connected. is to be I cannot doubt that this more consolidated & extended Work. will be as  kindly recieved The Enthusiasm of the  following Poem, the Author hopes inI also hope the Reader will be with me. wholly One in Jesus  our Lord, who is the God and Lord to whom the Ancients look'd and saw his day afar off. with trembling &  amazement. The Spirit of Jesus is continual forgiveness  of Sin: he who waits to be righteous before he enters into the Saviours  kingdom. the Divine Body; will never enter there. I am perhaps the most  sinful of men! I pretend not to holiness: yet I pretend to love, to  see, to converse with daily, as man with man; & the more to have an interest  in the Friend of Sinners. ThereforeReader, what you do not approve, & me for this energetic exertion of my  talent. Reader! of books! of heaven. And of that God from whom Who in mysterious Sinais awful cave, To Man the wond'rous art of writing  gave. Again he speaks in thunder and in fire! Thunder of Thought, & flames of fierce  desire: Even from the depths of Hell his voice I  hear, Within the unfathomd caverns of my Ear. Therefore I print: nor vain my types shall  be: Heaven, Earth & Hell, henceforth shall live  in harmony Of the Measure, in which   the following Poem is written We who dwell on Earth can do nothing of  ourselves, every thing  is conducted by Spirits, no less than Digestion or  Sleep. When this Verse was first dictated to me I  consider'd  a Monotonous Cadence like that used by  Milton & Shak- -speare & all writers of English  Blank Verse. derived  from the modern bondage of Rhyming; to be  a necessary  and indispensible part of Verse. But I soon  found that  in the mouth of a true Orator such monotony  was not  only awkward, but as much a bondage as rhyme  itself.  I therefore have produced a variety in every  line. both  of cadences & number of syllables. Every  word and  every letter is studied and put into its fit  place: the  terrific numbers are reserved for the  terrific parts  the mild & gentle, for the mild & gentle  parts. and  the prosaic, for inferior parts; all are  necessary to  each other. Poetry Fetter'd. Fetters the Human Race.  Nations are Destroy'd, or Flourish, in  proportion as Their  Poetry Painting and Music, are Destroy'd or  Flourish! The  Primeval State of Man, was Wisdom, Art, and  Science. 