98 Then each an Arrow flaming from his Quiver  fitted carefully They drew fourfold the unreprovable String.  bending thro the wide Heavens The horned Bow Fourfold, loud sounding flew  the flaming Arrow fourfold Murmuring the Bow-string breathes with ardor.  Clouds roll round the horns Of the wide Bow, loud sounding Winds sport on  the Mountains brows: The Druid Spectre was Annihilate loud  thundring rejoicing terrific vanishing Fourfold Annihilation & at the clangor of the  Arrows of Intellect The innumerable Chariots of the Almighty  appeard in Heaven And Bacon & Newton & Locke. & Milton &  Shakspear & Chaucer A Sun of blood red wrath surrounding heaven  on all sides around Glorious incomprehsible by Mortal Man & each Chariot was Sexual Threefold And every Man stood Fourfold. each Four Faces  had. One to the West One toward the East One to the South One to  the North. the Horses Fourfold And the dim Chaos brightend beneath. above,  around! Eyed as the Peacock According to the Human Nerves of Sensation, the Four  Rivers of the Water of Life South stood the Nerves of the Eye. East in Rivers of  bliss the Nerves of the Expansive Nostrils West. flowd the Parent Sense the  Tongue. North stood The labyrinthine Ear. Circumscribing & Circumcising  the excrementitious Husk & Covering into Vacuum evaporating revealing the  lineaments of Man Driving outward the Body of Death in an Eternal Death  & Resurrection Awaking it to Life among the Flowers of Beulah  rejoicing in Unity In the Four Senses in the Outline the Circumference &  Form. for ever In Forgiveness of Sins which is Self Annihilation. it  is the Covenant of Jehovah The Four Living Creatures Chariots of Humanity Divine  Incomprehensible In beautiful Paradises expand These are the Four  Rivers of Paradise And the Four Faces of Humanity fronting the Four  Cardinal Points Of Heaven going forward forward irresistible from  Eternity to Eternity And they conversed together in Visionary forms  dramatic which bright Redounded from their Tongues in thunderous majesty. in  Visions In new Expanses, creating exemplars of Memory and of  Intellect Creating Space. Creating Time according to the wonders  Divine Of Human Imagination. throughout all the Three Regions  immense Of Childhood. Manhood & Old Age & the all tremendous  unfathomable NonEns Of Death was seen in regerations terrific or  complacent varying According to the subject of discourse & every Word &  every Character Was Human according to the Expansion or Contraction.  the Translucence or Opakeness of Nervous fibres such was the variation of  Time & Space Which vary according as the Organs of Perception vary  & they walked To & fro in Eternity as One Man reflecting each in  each & clearly seen And seeing: according to fitness & order. And I heard  Jehovah speak Terrific from his Holy Place & saw the Words of the  Mutual Covenant Divine On Chariots of gold & jewels with Living Creatures  starry & flaming With every Colour. Lion. Tyger. Horse. Elephant. Eagle  Dove. Fly. Worm. And the all wondrous Serpent clothed in gems & rich  array Humanize In the Forgiveness of Sins according to the Covent of Jehovah, They Cry Where is the Covenant of Priam. the Moral Virtues of  the Heathen Where is the Tree of Good & Evil that rooted beneath  the cruel heel Of Albions Spectre the Patriarch Druid! where are all  his Human Sacrifice For Sin in War & in the Druid Temples of the Accuser  of Sin: beneath The Oak Groves of Albion that coverd the whole Earth  beneath his Spectre Where are the Kingdoms of the World & all their glory  that grew on Desolation The Fruit of Albions Poverty Tree when the Triple  Headed Gog-Magog Giant Of Albion Taxed the Nations into Desolation & then  gave the Spectrous Oath Such is the Cry from all the Earth from the Living  Creatures of the Earth And from the great City of Golgonooza in the Shadowy  Generation And from the Thirty-two Nations of the Earth among the  Living Creatures 