34
Elevate into the Region of Brotherhood with my red  fires
Art thou Vala? replied Albion. image of my repose
O how I tremble! how my members pour down milky  fear!
A dewy garment covers me all over, all manhood is  gone:
At thy word & at thy look death enrobes me about
From head to feet, a garment of death & eternal  fear
Is not that Sun thy husband & that Moon thy glimmering  Veil?
Are not the Stars of heaven thy Children! art thou not  Babylon?
Art thou Nature Mother of all! is Jerusalem thy  Daughter
Why have thou elevate inward; O dweller of outward  chambers
From grot & cave beneath the Moon dim region of  death
Where I laid my Plow in the hot noon. where my hot  team fed
Where implements of War are forged, the Plow to go  over the Nations
In pain girding me round like a rib of iron in heaven!  O Vala
In Eternity they neither marry nor are given in  marriage
Albion the high Cliff of the Atlantic is become a  barren Land
Los stood at his Anvil: he heard the contentions of  Vala 
He heavd his thundring Bellows upon the valleys of  Middlesex
He opend his Furnaces before Vala. then Albion frownd  in anger
On his Rock; ere yet the Starry Heavens were fled  away
From his awful Members. and thus Los cried aloud
To the Sons of Albion & to Hand the eldest Son of  Albion
I hear the screech of Childbirth loud pealing. & the  groans
Of Death. in Albions clouds dreadful utterd over all  the Earth
What may Man be? who can tell! but what may Woman  be?
To have power over Man from Cradle to corruptible  Grave.
There is a Throne in every Man, it is the Throne of  God
This Woman has claimd as her own & Man is no more!
Albion is the Tabernacle of Vala & her Temple
And not the Tabernacle & Temple of the Most High
O Albion why wilt thou Create a Female Will?
To hide the most evident God in a hidden covert.  even
In the shadows of a Woman & a secluded Holy Place
That we may pry after him as after a stolen  treasure
Hidden among the Dead & mured up from the paths of  life
Hand! art thou not Reuben enrooting thyself into  Bashan
Till thou remainest a vaporous Shadow in a Void! O  Merlin!
Unknown among the Dead where never before Existence  came
Is this the Female Will O ye lovely Daughters of  Albion. To
Converse concerning Weight & Distance in the Wilds of  Newton & Locke
So Los spoke standing on Mam-Tor looking over Europe &  Asia
The Graves thunder beneath his feet from Ireland to  Japan
Reuben slept in Bashan like one dead in the valley
Cut off from Albions mountains & from all the Earths  summits
Between Succoth & Zaretan beside the Stone of  Bohan
While the Daughters of Albion divided Luvah into three  Bodies
Los bended his Nostrils down to the Earth, then sent  him over
Jordan to the Land of the Hittite: every-one that saw  him
Fled! they fled at his horrible Form: they hid in  caves
And dens, they looked on one-another & became what  they beheld
Reuben return'd to Bashan. in despair he slept on the  Stone.
Then Gwendolen divided into Rahab & Tirza in Twelve  Portions
Los rolled, his Eyes into two narrow circles, then  sent him
Over Jordan; all terrified fled; they became what they  beheld.
If Perceptive Organs vary: Objects of Perception seem  to vary:
If the Perceptive Organs close: their Objects seem to  close also:
Consider this O mortal Man: O worm of sixty winters  said Los
Consider Sexual Organization & hide thee in the  dust.
