21
O Vala! O Jerusalem! do you delight in my groans
You O lovely forms, you have prepared my death-cup:
The disease of Shame covers me from head to feet; I  have no hope
Every boil upon my body is a separate & deadly  Sin.
Doubt first assaild me, then Shame took possession of  me
Shame divides Families. Shame hath divided Albion in  sunder!
First fled my Sons, & then my Daughters, then my Wild  Animations
My Cattle next, last ev'n the Dog of my Gate. the  Forests fled
The Corn-fields, & the breathing Gardens outside  separated
The Sea; the Stars; the Sun; the Moon! drivn forth by  my disease
All is Eternal Death unless you can weave a chaste
Body over an unchaste Mind! Vala! O that thou wert  pure!
That the deep wound of Sin might be clos'd up with the  Needle.
And with the Loom: to cover Gwendolen & Ragan with  costly Robes
Of Natural Virtue for their Spiritual forms without a  Veil
Wither in Luvahs Sepulcher. I thrust him from my  presence
And all my Children followd his loud howlings into the  Deep.
Jerusalem! dissembler Jerusalem! I look into thy  bosom!
I discover thy secret places: Cordella! I behold
Thee whom I thought pure as the heavens in innocence &  fear:
Thy Tabernacle taken down, thy secret Cherubim  disclosed
Art thou broken? Ah me Sabrina, running by my  side:
In childhood what wert thou? unutterable anguish!  Conwenna
Thy cradled infancy is most piteous. O hide, O  hide!
Their secret gardens were made paths to the  traveller:
I knew not of their secret loves with those I hated  most.
Nor that their every thought was Sin & secret  appetite
Hyle sees in fear, he howls in fury over them, Hand  sees
In jealous fear; in stern accusation with cruel  stripes
He drives them thro' the Streets of Babylon before my  face:
Because they taught Luvah to rise into my clouded  heavens
Battersea and Chelsea mourn for Cambel &  Gwendolen!
Hackney and Holloway sicken for Estrild & Ignoge!
Because the Peak. Malvern & Cheviot Reason in  Cruelty
Penmaenmawr & Dhinas-bran Demonstrate in Unbelief
Manchester & Liverpool are in tortures of Doubt &  Despair
Malden & Colchester Demonstrate: I hear my Childrens  voices
I see their piteous faces gleam out upon the cruel  winds
From Lincoln & Norwich, from Edinburgh & Monmouth/
I see them distant from my bosom scourgd along the  roads
Then lost in clouds; I hear their tender voices!  clouds divide
I see them die beneath the whips of the Captains! they  are taken
In solemn pomp into Chaldea across the bredths of  Europe
Six months they lie embalmd in silent death:  worshipped
Carried in Arks of Oak before the armies in the  spring
Bursting their Arks they rise again to life! they play  before
The Armies: I hear their loud cymbals & their deadly  cries
Are the Dead cruel? are those who are infolded in  moral Law
Revengeful? O that Death & Annihilation were the  same!
Then Vala answerd spreading her scarlet Veil over  Albion
