48
These were his last words. and the merciful Saviour in  his arms
Reciev'd him, in the arms of tender mercy and  repos'd
The pale limbs of his Eternal Individuality
Upon the Rock of Ages. Then, surrounded with a  Cloud:
In silence the Divine Lord builded with immortal  labour.
Of gold & jewels a sublime Ornament, a Couch of  repose,
With Sixteen pillars: canopied with emblems & written  verse.
Spiritual Verse, order'd & measur'd, from whence, time  shall reveal.
The Five books of the Decalogue, the books of Joshua &  Judges.
Samuel, a double book & Kings, a double book. the  Psalms & Prophets
The Four-fold Gospel, and the Revelations  everlasting
Eternity groan'd & was troubled, at the image of  Eternal Death!
Beneath the bottoms of the Graves. which is Earths  central joint.
There is a place where Contrarieties are equally  true:
(To protect from the Giant blows in the sports of  intellect,
Thunder in the midst of kindness. & love that kills  its beloved:
Because Death is for a period, and they renew  tenfold.)
From this sweet Place Maternal Love awoke  Jerusalem
With pangs she forsook Beulah's pleasant lovely  shadowy Universe
Where no dispute can come; created for those who  Sleep.
Weeping was in all Beulah. and all the Daughters of  Beulah
Wept for their Sister the Daughter of Albion.  Jerusalem:
When out of Beulah the Emanation of the Sleeper  descended
With solemn mourning out of Beulahs moony shades and  hills:
Within the Human Heart, whose Gates closed with solemn  sound.
And this the manner of the terrible Separation
The Emanations of the grievously afflicted Friends of  Albion
Concenter in one Female form an Aged pensive  Woman.
Astonish'd! lovely! embracing the sublime shade: the  Daughters of Beulah
Beheld her with wonder! With awful hands she took
A Moment of Time, drawing it out with many tears &  afflictions
And many sorrows: oblique across the Atlantic Vale
Which is the Vale of Rephaim dreadful from East to  West,
Where the Human Harvest waves abundant in the beams of  Eden
Into a Rainbow of jewels and gold, a mild Reflection  from
Albions dread Tomb. Eight thousand and five hundred  years
In its extension. Every two hundred years has a door  to Eden
She also took an Atom of Space. with dire pain opening  it a Center
Into Beulah: trembling the Daughters of Beulah  dried
Her tears. she ardent embrac'd her sorrows. occupied  in labours
Of sublime mercy in Rephaims Vale. Perusing Albions  Tomb
She sat: she walk'd among the ornaments solemn  mourning.
The Daughters attended her shudderings, wiping the  death sweat
Los also saw her in his seventh Furnace, he also  terrified
Saw the finger of God go forth upon his seventh  Furnace:
Away from the Starry Wheels to prepare Jerusalem a  place.
When with a dreadful groan the Emanation mild of  Albion,
Burst from his bosom in the Tomb like a pale snowy  cloud,
Female and lovely, struggling to put off the Human  form
Writhing in pain. The Daughters of Beulah in kind arms  reciev'd
Jerusalem: weeping over her among the Spaces of  Erin.
In the Ends of Beulah. where the Dead wail night &  day.
And thus Erin spoke to the Daughters of Beulah, in  soft tears
Albion the Vortex of the Dead! Albion the  Generous!
Albion the mildest son of Heaven! The Place of Holy  Sacrifice!
Where Friends Die for each other: will become the  Place.
Of Murder, & Unforgiving. Never-awaking Sacrifice of  Enemies
The Children must be sacrific'd! (a horror never  known
Till now in Beulah.) unless a Refuge can be found
To hide them from the wrath of Albions Law that  freezes sore
Upon his Sons & Daughters, self-exiled from his  bosom
Draw ye Jerusalem away from Albions Mountains
To give a Place for Redemption, let Sihon and Og
Remove Eastward to Bashan and Gilead, and leave
The
