66
In awful pomp & gold, in all the precious unhewn  stones of Eden
They build a stupendous Building on the Plain of  Salisbury; with chains
Of rocks round London Stone: of Reasonings: of unhewn  Demonstrations
In labyrinthine arches. (Mighty Urizen the Architect,)  thro which
The Heavens might revolve & Eternity be bound in their  chain.
Labour unparallelld! a wondrous rocky World of cruel  destiny
Rocks piled on rocks reaching the stars; stretching  from pole to pole.
The Building is Natural Religion & its Altars Natural  Morality
A building of eternal death: whose proportions are  eternal despair
Here Vala stood turning the iron Spindle of  destruction
From heaven to earth: howling! invisible! but not  invisible
Her Two Covering Cherubs afterwards named Voltaire &  Rousseau:
Two frowning Rocks; on each side of the Cove & Stone  of Torture:
Frozen Sons of the feminine Tabernacle of Bacon.  Newton & Locke.
For Luvah is France: the Victim of the Spectres of  Albion.
Los beheld in terror: he pour'd his loud storms on the  Furnaces:
The Daughters of Albion clothed in garments of needle  work
Strip them off from their shoulders and bosoms, they  lay aside
Their garments; they sit naked upon the Stone of  trial,
The Knife of flint passes over the howling Victim: his  blood
Gushes & stains the fair side of the fair Daugters of  Albion.
They put aside his curls; they divide his seven locks  upon
His forehead: they bind his forehead with thorns of  iron
They put into his hand a reed, they mock Saying:  Behold
The King of Canaan whose are seven hundred chariots of  iron!
They take off his vesture whole with their Knives of  flint:
But they cut asunder his inner garments; searching  with
Their cruel fingers for his heart, & there they enter  in pomp.
In many tears; & there they erect a temple & an  altar;
They pour cold water on his brain in front. to  cause.
Lids to grow over his eyes in veils of tears: and  caverns
To freeze over his nostrils. while they feed his  tongue from cups
And dishes of painted clay. Glowing with beauty &  cruelty:
They obscure the sun & the moon; no eye can look upon  them.
Ah! alas! at the sight of the Victim. & at sight of  those who are smitten,
All who see. become what they behold. their eyes are  coverd
With veils of tears and their nostrils & tongues  shrunk up
Their ear bent outwards. as their Victim, so are they  in the pangs
Of unconquerable fear! amidst delights of revenge  Earth-shaking!
And as their eye & ear shrunk, the heavens shrunk  away
The Divine Vision became first a burning flame. then a  column
Of fire, then an awful fiery wheel surrounding earth &  heaven:
And then a globe of blood wandering distant in an  unknown night;
Afar into the unknown night the mountains fled  away:
Six months of mortality; a summer: & six months of  mortality; a winter:
The Human form began to be alterd by the Daughters of  Albion
And the perceptions to be dissipated into the  Indefinite. Becoming
A mighty Polypus nam'd Albions Tree: they tie the  Veins
And Nerves into two knots: & the Seed into a double  knot:
They look forth: the Sun is shrunk; the Heavens are  shrunk
Away into the far remote: and the Trees & Mountains  witherd
Into indefinite cloudy shadows in darkness &  separation.
By Invisible Hatreds adjoind, they seem remote and  separate
From each other; and yet are a Mighty Polypus in the  Deep!
As the Misletoe grows on the Oak, so Albions Tree on  Eternity: Lo!
He who will not comingle in Love. must be adjoind by  Hate
They look forth from Stone-henge! from the Cove round  London Stone
They look on one another: the mountain calls out to  the mountain:
Plinlimmon shrunk away: Snowdon trembled: the  mountains
Of Wales & Scotland beheld the descending War: the  routed flying:
Red run the streams of Albion: Thames is drunk with  blood;
As Gwendolen cast the shuttle of war; as Cambel  returnd the beam.
The Humber & the Severn; are drunk with the blood of  the slain:
London feels his brain cut round: Edinburghs heart is  circumscribed!
York & Lincoln hide among the flocks. because of the  griding Knife.
Worcester & Hereford: Oxford & Cambridge reel &  stagger,
Overwearied with howling: Wales & Scotland alone  sustain the fight!
The inhabitants are sick to death; they labour to  divide into Days
And Nights, the uncertain Periods; and into Weeks &  Months. In vain
They send the Dove & Raven: & in vain the Serpent over  the mountains.
And in vain the Eagle & Lion over the four-fold  wilderness.
They return not; but generate in rocky places  desolate.
They return not; but build a habitation separate from  Man.
The Sun forgets his course like a drunken man; he  hesitates,
Upon the Cheselden hills, thinking to sleep on the  Severn
In vain; he is hurried afar into an unknown Night
He bleeds in torrents of blood as he rolls thro heaven  above
He chokes up the paths of the sky; the Moon is leprous  as snow:
Trembling & descending down seeking to rest upon high  Mona:
Scattering her leprous snows in flakes of disease over  Albion.
The Stars flee remote: the heaven is iron, the earth  is sulphur.
And all the mountains & hills shrink up like a  withering gourd.
As the Senses of Men shrink together under the Knife  of flint.
In the hands of Albions Daughters, among the Druid  Temples.
