96 As the Sun & Moon lead forward the  Visions of Heaven & Earth England who is Brittannia entered  Albions bosom rejoicing Then Jesus appeared standing by  Albion as the Good Shepherd By the lost Sheep that he hath  found & Albion knew that it Was the Lord the Universal Human -ity. & Albion saw his Form A Man. & they conversed as Man  with Man. in Ages of Eternity And the Divine Appearance was  the likeness & similitude of Los Albion said. O Lord what can  I do: my Selfhood cruel Marches against thee deceitful  from Sinai & from Edom Into the Wilderness of Judah to  meet thee in his pride I behold the Visions of my deadly  Sleep of Six Thousand Years Dazling around thy skirts like  a Serpent of precious stones & gold I know it is my Self; O my Divine  Creator & Redeemer Jesus replied Fear not Albion  unless I die thou anst not lie But if I die I shll are agn & thou with me This is Friendship & Brotherhood  without it Man Is Not So Jesus spoke: the Covering  Cherub coming on in darkness Overshadowd them & Jesus  said Thus do Men in Eternity One for another to put off by  forgiveness, every sin Albion replyd. Cannot Man  exist without Mysterious Offering of Self for Another. is  thi Friendship & Brotherhood I see thee in the likeness and similitude of Los my Friend Jesus said. Wouldest thou  love one who never died For thee or ever die for one  who had not died for thee And if God dieth not for  Man & giveth not himself Eternally for Man Man could not exist. for Man is  Love: As God is Love: every kindness to another is a little  Death In the Divine Image nor can Man exist but by  Brotherhood So saying. the Cloud overshadowing divided them  asunder Albion stood in terror: not for himself but for his  Friend Divine. & Self was lost in the contemplation of  faith And wonder at the Divine Mercy & at Loss sublime  honour Do I sleep amidst danger to Friends! O my Cities &  Counties Do you sleep! rouze up: rouze up. Eternal Death is  abroad So Albion spoke & threw himself into the Furnaces of  affliction All was a Vision. all a Dream: the Furnaces became Fountains of Living Waters flowing from the Humanity  Divine And all the Cities of Albion rose from their Slumbers.  and All The Sons & Daughters of Albion on soft clouds Waking  from Sleep Soon all around remote the Heavens burnt with flaming  fires And Urizen & Luvah & Tharmas & Urthona arose into Albions Bosom: Then Albion stood before Jesus in the  Clouds Of Heaven Fourfold among the Visions of God in  Eternity 