67

By those who drink their blood & the blood of their  Covenant
And the Twelve Daughters of Albion united in Rahab &  Tirzah
A Double Female: and they drew out from the Rocky  Stones
Fibres of Life to Weave for every Female is a Golden  Loom
The Rocks are opake hardnesses covering all Vegetated  things.
And as they Wove & Cut from the Looms in various  divisions
Stretching over Europe & Asia from Ireland to  Japan
They divided into many lovely Daughters to be  counterparts
To those they Wove, for when they Wove a Male. they  divided
Into a Female to the Woven Male, in opake hardness
They cut the Fibres from the Rocks groaning in pain  they Weave;
Calling the Rocks Atomic Origins of Existence: denying  Eternity
By the Atheistical Epicurean Philosophy of Albions  Tree
Such are the Feminine & Masculine when separated from  Man
They call the Rocks Parents of Men. & adore the  frowning Chaos
Dancing around in howling pain clothed in the bloody  Veil.
Hiding Albions Sons within the Veil, closing  Jerusalems
Sons without! to feed with their Souls the Spectres of  Albion
Ashamed to give Love openly to the piteous & merciful  Man
Counting him an imbecile mockery: but the Warrior
They adore: & his revenge cherish with the blood of  the Innocent
They drink up Dan & Gad, to feed with milk Skofeld &  Kotope
They strip off Josephs Coat & dip it in the blood of  battle
Tirzah sits weeping to hear the shrieks of the dying:  her Knife
Of flint is in her hand: she passes it over the  howling Victim
The Daughters Weave their Work in loud cries over the  Rock
Of Horeb: still eyeing Albions Cliffs eagerly siezing  & twisting
The threads of Vala & Jerusalem running from mountain  to mountain
Over the whole Earth: loud the Warriors rage in Beth  Peor
Beneath the iron whips of their Captains & consecrated  banners
Loud the Sun & Moon rage in the conflict: loud the  Stars
Shout in the night of battle & their spears grow to  their hands
With blood, weaving the deaths of the Mighty into a  Tabernacle
For Rahab & Tirzah; till the Great Polypus of  Generation covered 
the Earth
In Verulam the Polypus's Head, winding around his  bulk
Thro Rochester, and Chichester, & Exeter &  Salisbury.
To Bristol: & his Heart beat strong on Salisbury  Plain
Shooting out Fibres round the Earth. thro Gaul &  Italy
And Greece, & along the Sea of Rephaim into Judea
To Sodom & Gomorrha: thence to India, China &  Japan
The Twelve Daughters in Rahab & Tirzah have  circumscribd the Brain
Beneath & pierced it thro the midst with a golden  pin.
Blood hath staind her fair side beneath her bosom.
O thou poor Human Form! said she. O thou poor child of  woe!
Why wilt thou wander away from Tirzah: why me compel  to bind thee
If thou dost go away from me I shall consume upon  these Rocks
These fibres of thine eyes that used to beam in  distant heavens
Away from me: I have bound down with a hot iron.
These nostrils that expanded with delight in morning  skies
I have bent downward with lead melted in my roaring  furnaces
Of affliction; of love: of sweet despair: of torment  unendurable
My soul is seven furnaces, incessant roars the  bellows
Upon my terribly flaming heart, the molten metal  runs
In channels thro my fiery limbs: O love: O pity; O  fear!
O pain! O the pangs. the bitter pangs of love  forsaken
Ephraim was a wilderness of joy where all my wild  beasts ran
The River Kanah wanderd by my sweet Manassehs side
To see the boy spring into heavens sounding from my  sight!
Go Noah fetch the girdle of strong brass, heat it red-hot:
Press it around the loins of this ever expanding  cruelty
Shriek not so my only love; I refuse thy joys: I  drink
Thy shrieks because Hand & Hyle are cruel & obdurate  to me
