9

Condens'd his Emanations into hard opake  substances;
And his infant thoughts & desires. into cold. dark.  cliffs of death.
His hammer of gold he siez'd; and his anvil of  adamant.
He siez'd the bars of condens'd thoughts, to forge  them:
Into the sword of war! into the bow and arrow:
Into the thundering cannon and into the murdering  gun
I saw the limbs form'd for exercise, contemn'd: & the  beauty of
Eternity, look'd upon as deformity & loveliness as a  dry tree:
I saw disease forming a Body of Death around the  Lamb
Of God, to destroy Jerusalem. & to devour the body of  Albion
By war and stratagem to win the labour of the  husbandman:
Awkwardness arm'd in steel: folly in a helmet of  gold:
Weakness with horns & talons: ignorance with a rav'ning  beak!
Every Emanative joy forbidden as a Crime:
And the Emanations buried alive in the earth with pomp  of religion:
Inspiration deny'd; Genius forbidden by laws of  punishment:
I saw terrified; I took the sighs & tears. & bitter  groans:
I lifted them into my Furnaces; to form the spiritual  sword.
That lays open the hidden heart: I drew forth the  pang
Of sorrow red hot: I workd it on my resolute anvil:
I heated it in the flames of Hand, & Hyle, & Coban
Nine times; Gwendolen & Cambel & Gwineverra
Are melted into the gold, the silver, the liquid  ruby,
The crysolite, the topaz. the jacinth. & every precious  stone.
Loud roar my Furnaces and loud my hammer is heard:
I labour day and night, I behold the soft  affections
Condense beneath my hammer into forms of cruelty
But still I labour in hope, tho' still my tears flow  down.
That he who will not defend Truth, may be compelld to  defend
A Lie: that he may be snared and caught and snared and  taken
That Enthusiasm and Life may not cease: arise Spectre  arise!
Thus they contended among the Furnaces with groans &  tears;
Groaning the Spectre heavd the bellows. obeying Los's  frowns;
Till the Spaces of Erin were perfected in the  furnaces
Of affliction, and Los drew them forth. compelling the  harsh. Spectre.

