89 Tho divided by the Cross & Nails & Thorns & Spear In cruelties of Rahab & Tirzah permanent endure A. terrible indefinite Hermaphroditic form A Wine-press of Love & Wrath double Hermaphoditic Twelvefold in Allegoric pomp in selfish holiness The Pharisaion, the Grammateis. the Presbuterion. The Archiereus, the Iereus, the Saddusaion, double Each withoutside of the other, covering eastern  heaven Thus was the Covering Cherub reveald majestic  image Of Selfhood, Body put off. the Antichrist accursed Coverd with precious stones. a Human Dragon  terrible And bright. stretchd over Europe & Asia gorgeous In three nights he devourd the rejected. corse of  death His Head dark, deadly, in its Brain incloses a  reflexion Of Eden all perverted; Egypt on the Gihon many  tongued And many mouthd: Ethiopia. Lybia, the Sea of  Rephaim Minute Particulars in slavery I behold among the  brick-kilns Disorganizd, & there is Pharoh in his iron Court: And the Dragon of the River & the Furnaces of  iron. Outwoven from Thames & Tweed & Severn awful  streams Twelve ridges of Stone frown over all the Earth in  tyrant pride Frown over each River stupendous Works of Albions  Druid Sons And Albions Forests of Oaks coverd the Earth from Pole  to Pole His Bosom wide reflects Moab & Ammon. on the River Pison. since calld Arnon, there is Heshbon  beautiful The flocks of Rabbath on the Arnon & the Fish-pools of  Heshbon Whose currents flow into the Dead Sea by Sodom &  Gomorra Above his Head high arching Wings black filld with  Eyes Spring upon iron sinews from the Scapulæ & Os  Humeri. There Israel in bondage to his Generalizing Gods Molech & Chemosh. & in his left breast is  Philistea In Druid Temples over the whole Earth with Victims  Sacrifice, From Gaza to Damascus Tyre & Sidon & the Gods Of Javan thro the Isles of Grecia & all Europes  Kings Where Hiddekel pursues his course among the rocks Two Wings spring from his ribs of brass. starry. black  as night But translucent their blackness as the dazling of  gems His Loins inclose Babylon on Euphrates beautiful And Rome in sweet Hesperia, there Israel scatterd  abroad In martyrdoms & slavery I behold: ah vision of  sorrow! Inclosed by eyeless Wings, glowing with fire as the  iron Heated in the Smiths forge, but cold the wind of their  dread fury But in the midst of a devouring Stomach, Jerusalem Hidden within the Covering Cherub as in a  Tabernacle Of threefold workmanship in allegoric delusion &  woe There the Seven Kings of Canaan & Five Baalim of  Philistea Sihon & Og the Anakim & Emim Nephilim & Gibborim From Babylon to Rome & the Wings spread from Japan Where the Red Sea terminates the World of Generation &  Death To Irelands farthest rocks where Giants builded their  Causeway Into the Sea of Rephaim, but the Sea oerwhelmd them  all, A Double Female now appeard within the Tabernacle, Religion hid in War, a Dragon red & hidden Harlot Each within other. but without a Warlike Mighty-one Of dreadful power sitting upon Horeb pondering  dire And mighty preparations mustering multitudes  innumerable Of warlike sons among the sands of Midian & Aram For multitudes of those who sleep in Alla descend Lured by his warlike symphonies of tabret pipe &  harp Burst the bottoms of the Graves & Funeral Arks of  Beulah Wandering in that unknown Night beyond the silent  Grave They become One with the Antichrist & are absorbd in  him 