42
Thus Albion sat. studious of others in his pale  disease:
Brooding on evil: but when Los opend the Furnaces  before him:
He saw that the accursed things were his own  affections,
And his own beloveds: then he turn'd sick: his soul  died within him
Also Los sick & terrified beheld the Furnaces of  Death
And must have died. but the Divine Saviour  descended
Among the infant loves & affections. and the Divine  Vision wept
Like evening dew on every herb upon the breathing  ground
Albion spoke in his dismal dreams; O thou deceitful  friend
Worshipping mercy & beholding thy friend in such  affliction:
Los! thou now discoverest thy turpitude to the  heavens.
I demand righteousness & justice. O thou  ingratitude!
Give me my Emanations back food for my dying soul!
My daughters are harlots! my sons are accursed before  me.
Enitharmon is my daughter: accursed with a fathers  curse:
O! I have utterly been wasted! I have given my  daughters to devils
So spoke Albion in gloomy majesty, and deepest  night
Of Ulro rolld round his skirts from Dover to  Cornwall.
Los answerd. Righteousness & justice I give thee in  return
For thy righteousness! but I add mercy also, and  bind
Thee from destroying these little ones; am I to be  only
Merciful to thee and cruel to all that thou hatest
Thou wast the Image of God surrounded by the Four  Zoa's
Three thou hast slain: I am the Fourth; thou canst not  destroy me.
Thou art in Error; trouble me not with thy  righteousness.
I have innocence to defend and ignorance to  instruct:
I have no time for seeming; and little arts of  compliment.
In morality and virtue: in self-glorying and  pride.
There is a limit of Opakeness, and a limit of  Contraction:
In every Individual Man. and the limit of  Opakeness.
Is named Satan: and the limit of Contraction is named  Adam,
But when Man sleeps in Beulah, the Saviour in mercy  takes
Contractions Limit, and of the Limit he forms Woman:  That
Himself may in process of time be born Man to  redeem
But there is no Limit of Expansion! there is no Limit  of Translucence.
In the bosom of Man for ever from eternity to  eternity.
Therefore I break thy bonds of righteousness; I crush  thy messengers!
That they may not crush me and mine: do thou be  righteous.
And I will return it; otherwise I defy thy worst  revenge:
Consider me as thine enemy: on me turn all thy  fury
But destroy not these little ones, nor mock the Lords  anointed:
Destroy not by Moral Virtue, the little ones whom he  hath chosen!
The little ones whom he hath chosen in preference to  thee.
He hath cast thee off for ever; the little ones he  hath anointed!
Thy Selfhood is for ever accursed from the Divine  presence
So Los spoke: then turn'd his face & wept for  Albion.
Albion replied. Go: Hand & Hyle! sieze the abhorred  friend:
As you have siezd the Twenty-four rebellious  ingratitudes;
To atone for you, for spiritual death! Man lives by  deaths of Men
Bring him to justice before heaven here upon London  stone,
Between Blackheath & Hounslow. between Norwood &  Finchley
All that they have is mine: from my free genrous  gift.
They now hold all they have: ingratitude to me!
To me their benefactor calls aloud for vengeance  deep.
Los stood before his Furnaces awaiting the fury of the  Dead:
And the Divine hand was upon him. strengthening him  mightily.
The Spectres of the Dead cry out from the deeps  beneath
Upon the hills of Albion; Oxford groans in his iron  furnace
Winchester in his den & cavern; they lament  against
Albion: they curse their human kindness &  affection
They rage like wild beasts in the forests of  affliction
In the dreams of Ulro they repent of their human  kindness.
Come up. build Babylon, Rahab is ours & all her  multitudes
With her in pomp and glory of victory. Depart
Ye twenty-four into the deeps! let us depart to  glory!
Their Human majestic forms sit up upon their  Couches
Of death: they curb their Spectres as with iron  curbs
They enquire after Jerusalem in the regions of the  dead.
With the voices of dead men, low, scarcely  articulate,
And with tears cold on their cheeks they weary  repose.
O when shall the morning of the grave appear, and  when
Shall our salvation come? we sleep upon our watch
We cannot awake! and our Spectres rage in the  forests
O God of Albion where art thou! pity the watchers!
Thus mourn they, Loud the Furnaces of Los thunder  upon
The clouds of Europe & Asia. among the Serpent  Temples!
And Los drew his Seven Furnaces around Albions  Altars
And as Albion built his frozen Altars, Los built the  Mundane Shell.
In the Four Regions of Humanity East & West & North &  South,
Till Norwood & Finchley & Blackheath & Hounslow,  coverd the whole Earth.
This is the Net & Veil of Vala. among the Souls of the  Dead.
