7 
Was living: panting like a frighted wolf. and  howling
He stood over the Immortal. in the solitude and  darkness:
Upon the darkning Thames, across the whole Island  westward.
A horrible Shadow of Death, among the Furnaces;  beneath
The pillar of folding smoke; and he sought by other  means.
To lure Los: by tears, by arguments of science & by  terrors:
Terrors in every Nerve, by spasms & extended pains:
While Los answer'd unterrified to the opake blackening  Fiend
And thus the Spectre spoke; Wilt thou still go on to  destruction?
Till thy life is all taken away by this deceitful  Friendship?
He drinks thee up like water! like wine he pours  thee
Into his tuns: thy Daughters are trodden in his  vintage
He makes thy Sons the trampling of his bulls, they are  plow'd.
And harrowd for his profit, lo! thy stolen  Emanation
Is his garden of pleasure! all the Spectres of his Sons  mock thee
Look how they scorn thy once admired palaces; now in  ruins
Because of Albion! because of deceit and friendship!  For Lo !
Hand has peopled Babel & Nineveh: Hyle. Ashur &  Aram;
Cobans son is Nimrod: his son Cush is adjoind to  Aram.
By the Daughter of Babel, in a woven mantle of  pestilence & war,
They put forth their spectrous cloudy sails; which  drive their immense
Constellations over the deadly deeps of indefinite  Udan-Adan
Kox is the Father of Shem & Ham & Japheth. he is the  Noah
Of the Flood of Udan-Adan. Hutn is the Father of the  Seven
From Enoch to Adam; Schofield is Adam who was New-
Created in Edom. I saw it indignant, & thou art not  moved!
This has divided thee in sunder! and wilt thou still  forgive?
O! thou seest not what I see! what is done in the  Furnaces.
Listen I will tell thee what is done in moments to thee  unknown:
Luvah was cast into the Furnaces of affliction and  sealed.
And Vala fed in cruel delight, the Furnaces with  fire:
Stern Urizen beheld; urgd by necessity to keep
The evil day afar. and if perchance with iron power
He might avert his own despair: in woe & fear he  saw
Vala incircle round the Furnaces where Luvah was  clos'd:
With joy she heard his howlings, & forgot he was her  Luvah.
With whom she liv'd in bliss in times of innocence &  youth!
Vala comes from the Furnace in a cloud. but wretched  Luvah
Is howling in the Furnaces, in flames among Albions  Spectres.
To prepare the Spectre of Albion to reign over thee O  Los.
Forming the Spectres of Albion according to his  rage:
To prepare the Spectre sons of Adam, who is Scofield:  the Ninth
Of Albions sons. & the father of all his brethren in  the Shadowy
Generation. Cambel & Gwendolen wove webs of war &  of
Religion, to involve all Albions sons, and when they  had
Involv'd Eight; their webs roll'd outwards into  darkness
And Scofield the Ninth remaind on the outside of the  Eight
And Kox. Kotope, & Bowen, One in him, a Fourfold  Wonder
Involv'd the Eight—Such are the Generations of  the Giant Albion.
To separate a Law of Sin. to punish thee in thy  members.
Los answer'd, Altho' I know not this! I know far worse  than this:
I know that Albion hath divided me. and that thou O my  Spectre.
Hast just cause to be irritated: but look stedfastly  upon me:
Comfort thyself in my strength the time will  arrive,
When all Albions injuries shall cease, and when we  shall
Embrace him tenfold bright. rising from his tomb in  immortality.
They have divided themselves by Wrath. they must be  united by
Pity: let us therefore take example & warning O my  Spectre,
O that I could abstain from wrath! O that the Lamb
Of God would look upon me and pity me in my fury.
In anguish of regeneration! in terrors of self  annihilation:
Pity must join together those whom wrath has torn in  sunder.
And the Religion of Generation which was meant for the  destruction
Of Jerusalem, become her covering. till the time of the  End.
O holy Generation!  of  regeneration!
O point of mutual forgiveness between Enemies!
Birthplace of the Lamb of God incomprehensible!
The Dead despise & scorn thee, & cast thee out as  accursed:
Seeing the Lamb of God in thy gardens & thy  palaces:
Where they desire to place the Abomination of  Desolation.
Hand sits before his furnace: scorn of others & furious  pride:
Freeze round him to bars of steel & to iron rocks  beneath
His feet: indignant self-righteousness like whirlwinds  of the north:
