40 Los shudder'd at beholding Albion, for his disease Arose upon him pale and ghastly: and he call'd  around The Friends of Albion: trembling at the sight of  Eternal Death The four appear'd with their Emanations in fiery Chariots: black their fires roll beholding Albions  House of Eternity Damp couch the flames beneath and silent, sick, stand  shuddering Before the Porch of sixteen pillars: weeping every  one Descended and fell down upon their knees round Albions  knees, Swearing the Oath of God! with awful voice of thunders  round Upon the hills & valleys, and the cloudy Oath roll'd  far and wide Albion is sick! said every Valley. every mournful  Hill And every River: our brother Albion is sick to  death. He hath leagued himself with robbers! he hath studied  the arts Of unbelief! Envy hovers over him! his Friends are his  abhorrence! Those who give their lives for him are despised! Those who devour his soul, are taken into his  bosom! To destroy his Emanation is their intention: Arise! awake O Friends of the Giant Albion They have perswaded him of horrible falshoods! They have sown errors over all his fruitful  fields! The Twenty-four heard! they came trembling on watry  chariots. Borne by the Living Creatures of the third  procession Of Human Majesty, the Living Creatures wept aloud as  they Went along Albions roads. till they arriv'd at Albions  House. O! how the torments of Eternal Death, waited on  Man; And the loud-rending bars of the Creation ready to  burst: That the wide world might fly from its hinges. & the  immortal mansion Of Man. for ever be possess'd by monsters of the  deeps: And Man himself become a Fiend. wrap'd in an endless  curse. Consuming and consum'd for-ever in flames of Moral  Justice. For had the Body of Albion fall'n down, and from its  dreadful ruins Let loose the enormous Spectre on the darkness of the  deep. At enmity with the Merciful & fill'd with devouring  fire, A nether-world must have recievd the foul enormous  spirit. Under pretence of Moral Virtue. fill'd with  Revenge and Law. There to eternity chain'd down, and issuing in red  flames And curses. with his mighty arms brandish'd against  the heavens Breathing cruelty blood & vengeance, gnashing his  teeth with pain Torn with black storms, & ceaseless torrents of his  own consuming fire: Within his breast his mighty Sons chaind down & fill'd  with cursings: And his dark Eon, that once fair crystal form divinely  clear: Within his ribs producing serpents whose souls are  flames of fire. But, glory to the Merciful-One. for he is of tender  mercies! And the Divine Family wept over him as One Man. And these the Twenty-four in whom the Divine  Family Appear'd; and they were One in Him, A Human  Vision! Human Divine, Jesus the Saviour. blessed for ever and  ever. Selsey. true friend! who afterwards submitted to be  devourd By the waves of Despair. whose Emanation rose  above The flood, and was nam'd Chichester. lovely mild &  gentle! Lo! Her lambs bleat to the sea-fowls cry, lamenting still  for Albion Submitting to be call'd the son of Los the terrible  vision: Winchester stood devoting himself for Albion: his  tents Outspread with abundant riches, and his Emanations Submitting to be call'd Enitharmons daughters, and be  born In vegetable mould: created by the Hammer and Loom In Bowlahoola & Allamanda where the Dead wail night &  day. (I call them by their English names: English. the  rough basement, Los built the stubborn structure of the Language.  acting against Albions melancholy, who must else have been a Dumb  despair.) Gloucester and Exeter and Salisbury and Bristol: and  benevolent Bath 