68 O Skofield why art thou cruel? Lo Joseph is thine! to  make You One: to weave you both in the same mantle of  skin Bind him down Sisters bind him down on Ebal. Mount of  cursing: Malah come forth from Lebanon; & Hoglah from Mount  Sinai; Come circumscribe this gue of sweets & with a screw of iron Fasten this ear into the rock: Milcah the task is  thine Weep not so Sisters! weep not so! our life depends on  this Or mercy & truth are fled away from Shechem & Mount  Gilead Unless my beloved i bound upon the Stems of  Vegetation And thus the Warriors cry. in the hot day of Victory,  in Songs. Look: the beautiful Daughter of Albion sits naked upon  the Stone Her panting Victim beside her: her heart is drunk with  blood Tho her brain is not drunk with wine: she goes forth  from Albion In pride of beauty: in cruelty of holiness: in the  brightness Of her tabernacle, & her ark & secret place. the  beautiful Daughter Of Albion. delights the eyes of the Kings, their  hearts & the Hearts of their Warriors glow hot before Thor & Friga.  O Molech! O Chemosh! O Bacchus! O Venus! O Double God of  Generation The Heavens are cut like a mantle around from the  Cliffs of Albion Across Europe; across Africa; in howlings & deadly  War A sheet & veil & curtain of blood is let down from  Heaven Across the hills of Ephraim & down Mount Olivet to The Valley of the Jebusite: Molech rejoices in  heaven He sees the Twelve Daughters naked upon the Twelve  Stones Themselves condensing to rocks & into the Ribs of a  Man Lo they shoot forth in tender Nerves across Europe &  Asia Lo they rest upon the Tribes, where their panting  Victims lie Molech rushes into the Kings in love to the beautiful  Daughters But they frown & delight in cruelty. refusing all  other joy Bring your Offerings. your first begotten: pamperd  with milk & blood Your first born of seven years old! be they Males or  Females: To the beautiful Daughters of Albion: they sport  before the Kings Clothed in the skin of the Victim! blood! human blood:  is the life And delightful food of the Warrior: the well fed  Warriors flesh Of him who is slain in War: fills the Valleys of  Ephraim with Breeding Women walking in pride & bringing forth under  green trees With pleasure, without pain, for their food is. blood  of the Captive Molech rejoices thro the Land from Havilah to Shur: he  rejoices In moral law & its severe penalties: loud Shaddai &  Jehovah Thunder above: when they see the Twelve panting  Victims On the Twelve Stones of Power. & the beautiful  Daughters of Albion If you dare rend their Veil with your Spear; you are  healed of Love! From the Hills of Camberwell & Wimbledon: from the  Valleys Of Walton & Esher: from Stone-henge & from Maldens  Cove Jerusalems Pillars fall in the rendings of fierce  War Over France & Germany: upon the Rhine & Danube Reuben & Benjamin flee; they hide in the Valley of  Rephaim Why trembles the Warriors limbs when he beholds thy  beauty Spotted with Victims blood: by the fires of thy secret  tabernacle And thy ark & holy place: at thy frowns: at thy dire  revenge Smitten as Uzzah of old: his armour is softend; his  spear And sword faint in his hand. from Albion across Great  Tartary O beautiful Daughter of Albion; cruelty is thy  delight O Virgin of terrible eyes, who dwellest by Valleys of  springs Beneath the Mountains of Lebanon. in the City of Rehob  in Hamath Taught to touch the harp: to dance in the Circle of  Warriors Before the Kings of Canaan: to cut the flesh from the  Victim To roast the flesh in fire: to examine the Infants  limbs In cruelties of holiness: to refuse the joys of love:  to bring The Spies from Egypt. to raise jealousy in the bosoms  of the Twelve Kings of Canaan: then to let the Spies depart to  Meribah Kadesh To the place of the Amalekite; I am drunk with  unsatiated love I must rush again to War: for the Virgin has frownd &  refusd Sometimes I curse & sometimes bless thy fascinating  beauty Once Man was occupied in intellectual pleasures &  energies But now my soul is harrowd with grief & fear & love &  desire And now I hate & now I love & Intellect is no  more: There is no time for any thing but the torments of  love & desire The Feminine & Masculine Shadows soft. mild & ever  varying In beauty: are Shadows now no more, but Rocks in  Horeb 