14 
One hair nor particle of dust. not one can pass  away.
He views the Cherub at the Tree of Life. also the  Serpent,
Orc the first born coild in the south: the Dragon  Urizen:
Tharmas the Vegetated Tongue even the Devouring  Tongue:
A threefold region, a False brain; a false heart:
And false bowels: altogether composing the False  Tongue,
Beneath Beulah: as a watry flame revolving every  way
And as dark roots and stems: a Forest of affliction;  growing
In seas of sorrow. Los also views the Four  Females:
Ahania, and Enion, and Vala. and Enitharmon  lovely.
And from them all the lovely beaming Daughters of  Albion.
Ahania & Enion & Vala. are three evanescent  shades:
Enitharmon is a vegetated mortal Wife of Los:
His Emanation, yet his Wife till the sleep of death is  past.
Such are the Buildings of Los: & such are the Woofs of  Enitharmon!
And Los beheld his Sons, and he beheld his  Daughters:
Every one a translucent Wonder: a Universe within.
Increasing inwards, into length. and breadth. and  heighth:
Starry & glorious: and they every one in their bright  loins:
Have a beautiful golden gate which opens into the  vegetative world:
And every one a gate of rubies & all sorts of precious  stones
In their translucent hearts. which opens into the  vegetative world:
And every one a gate of iron dreadful and  wonderful.
In their translucent heads. which opens into the  vegetative world
And every one has the three regions Childhood:  Manhood: & Age.
But the gate of the tongue: the western gate in them  is clos'd.
Having a wall builded against it. and thereby the  gates
Eastward & Southward & Northward. are incircled with  flaming fires.
And the North is Breadth. the South is Heighth &  Depth:
The East is Inwards; & the West is Outwards every  way.
And Los beheld the mild Emanation Jerusalem eastward  bending
Her revolutions toward the Starry Wheels in maternal  anguish
Like a pale cloud arising from the arms of Beulahs  Daughters:
In Entuthon Benythons deep Vales beneath  Golgonooza.

