52 
Rahab is an
Eternal State
To the Deists.
The Spiritual States of
the Soul are all Eternal
Distinguish between the
Man, & his present State
He never can be a Friend to the Human Race  who is the Preacher 
of Natural Morality or Natural Religion. he is a  flatterer who means to 
betray. to perpetuate Tyrant Pride & the Laws of that  Babylon which 
he Foresees shall shortly be destroyed. with the  Spiritual and not 
the Natural Sword: He is in the State named Rahab:  which State must 
be put off before he can be the Friend of Man.
You O Deists profess yourselves the Enemies  of Christianity: and 
you are so: you are also the Enemies of the Human Race  & of Uni-
-versal Nature. Man is born a Spectre or Satan & is  altogether an
Evil, & requires a New Selfhood continually & must  continually be
changed into his direct Contrary. But your Greek  Philosophy (which
is a remnant of Druidism) teaches that Man is  Righteous in his
Vegetated Spectre; an Opinion of fatal & accursed  consequence to
Man. as the Ancients saw plainly by Revelation to the  intire abroga
-tion of Experimental Theory. and many believed what  they saw, and
Prophecied of Jesus.
Man must & will have Some Religion; if he  has not the Religion
of Jesus, he will have the Religion of Satan, & will  erect the Synagogue
of Satan. calling the Prince of this World, God; and  destroying all
who do not worship Satan under the Name of God, Will  any one say,
Where are those who worship Satan under the Name of  God! Where
are they? Listen! Every Religion that Preaches  Vengeance for Sin
is the Religion of the Enemy & Avenger; and not of the  Forgiver of
Sin, and their God is Satan, Named by the Divine Name Your Re-
-ligion O Deists: Deism, is the Worship of the God of  this World by the
means of what you call Natural Religion and Natural  Philosophy, and of
Natural Morality or Self-Righteousness, the Selfish  Virtues of the Na-
-tural Heart. This was the Religion of the Pharisees  who murderd Je-
sus. Deism is the same & ends in the same.
Voltaire Rousseau Gibbon Hume. charge the  Spiritually Religious 
with Hypocrisy! but how a Monk or a Methodist either,  can be a Hy
-pocrite; I cannot concieve. We are Men of like  passions with others
& pretend not to be holier than others: therefore,  when a Religious
Man falls into Sin, he ought not to be calld a  Hypocrite: this title is
more properly to be given to a Player who falls into  Sin; whose pro-
fession is Virtue & Morality & the making Men Self-Righteous
Foote in calling Whitefield, Hypocrite; was himself  one: for White-
field pretended not to be holier than others: but  confessed his Sins
before all the World; Voltaire! Rousseau! You cannot  escape my
charge that you are Pharisees & Hypocrites, for you  are constantly
talking of the Virtues of the Human Heart, and  particularly of your
own, that you may accuse others & especially the  Religious, whose
errors, you by this display of pretended Virtue,  chiefly design to
expose. Rousseau thought Men Good by Nature; he found  them
Evil & found no friend. Friendship cannot exist  without Forgive
ness of Sins continually. The Book written by Rousseau  calld his
Confessions is an apology & cloke for his sin & not a  confession.
But you also charge the poor Monks &  Religious with being
the causes of War: while you acquit & flatter the  Alexanders &
Caesars, the Lewis;s & Fredericks: who alone are its  causes &
its actors, But the Religion of Jesus, Forgiveness of  Sin, can
never be the cause of a War nor of a single  Martyrdom.
Those who Martyr others or who cause War  are Deists, but
never can be Forgivers of Sin. The Glory of  Christianity is, To
Conquer by Forgiveness. All the Destruction therefore,  in Christian
Europe has arisen from Deism, which is Natural  Religion. 
(side 
I saw a Monk of Charlemaine
Arise before my sight
I talkd with the Grey Monk as we stood
In beams of infenal light
Gibbon arose with a lash of steel
And Voltaire with a wracking wheel
The Schools in clouds of learning rolld
Arose with War in iron & gold.
Thou lazy Monk they sound afar
In vain condemning glorious War
And in your Cell you shall ever dwell
Rise War & bind him in his Cell,
The blood. red ran from the Grey Monks
His hands & feet were wounded wide
His body bent, his arms & knees
Like to the roots of ancient trees
When Satan first the black bow bent
And the Moral Law from the Gospel rent
He forgd the Law into a Sword
And spilld the blood of mercys Lord.
Titus! Constantine! Charlemaine!
O Voltaire! Rousseau! Gibbon! Vain
Your Grecian Mocks & Roman Sword
Against this image of his Lord!
For a Tear is an  Intellectual thing;
And a Sigh is the Sword of an Angel  King
And the bitter groan of a  Martyrs woe
Is an Arrow from the Almighties  Bow/
