31
His western heaven with rocky clouds of death &  despair.
Fearing that Albion should turn his back  against the Divine Vision
Los took his globe of fire to search the interiors of  Albions
Bosom. in all the terrors of friendship. entering the  caves
Of despair & death, to search the tempters out,  walking among
Albions rocks & precipices! caves of solitude & dark  despair,
And saw every Minute Particular of Albion degraded &  murderd
But saw not by whom; they were hidden within in the  minute particulars
Of which they had possessd themselves; and there they  take up
The articulations of a mans soul. and laughing throw  it down
Into the frame. then knock it out upon the plank. &  souls are bak'd
In bricks to build the pyramids of Heber & Terah. But  Los
Searchd in vain: closd from the minutia he walkd,  difficult.
He came down from Highgate thro Hackney & Holloway  towards London
Till he came to old Stratford & thence to Stepney &  the Isle
Of Leuthas Dogs. thence thro the narrows of the Rivers  side
And saw every minute particular, the jewels of Albion,  running down
The kennels of the streets & lanes as if they were  abhorrd.
Every Universal Form. was become barren mountains of  Moral
Virtue: and every Minute Particular hardend into  grains of sand:
And all the tendernesses of the soul cast forth as  filth & mire.
Among the winding places of deep contemplation  intricate
To where the Tower of London frownd dreadful over  Jerusalem:
A building of Luvah builded in Jerusalems eastern gate  to be
His secluded Court: thence to Bethlehem where was  builded
Dens of despair in the house of bread: enquiring in  vain
Of stones and rocks he took his way, for human form  was none:
And thus he spoke. looking on Albions City with many  tears
What shall I do! what could I do, if I could find  these Criminals
I could not dare to take vengeance; for all things are  so constructed
And builded by the Divine hand, that the sinner shall  always escape,
And he who takes vengeance alone is the criminal of  Providence:
If I should dare to lay my finger on a grain of  sand
In way of vengeance: I punish the already punishd; O  whom
Should I pity if I pity not the sinner who is gone  astray!
O Albion, if thou takest vengeance; if thou revengest  thy wrongs
Thou art for ever lost! What can I do to hinder the  Sons
Of Albion from taking vengeance? or how shall I them  perswade.
So spoke Los. travelling thro darkness & horrid  solitude:
And he beheld Jerusalem in Westminster & Marybone.
Among the ruins of the Temple: and Vala who is her  Shadow.
Jerusalems Shadow bent northward over the Island  white.
At length he sat on London Stone. & heard Jerusalems  voice.
Albion I cannot be thy Wife. thine own Minute  Particulars,
Belong to God alone. and all thy little ones are  holy
They are of Faith & not of Demonstration: wherefore is  Vala
Clothd in black mourning upon my rivers currents, Vala  awake!
I hear thy shuttles sing in the sky, and round my  limbs
I feel the iron threads of love & jealousy &  despair.
Vala reply'd. Albion is mine: Luvah gave me to  Albion
And now recieves reproach & hate. Was it not said of  old
Set your Son before a man & he shall take you & your  sons
For slaves: but set your Daughter before a man and  She
Shall make him & his sons & daughters your slaves for  ever:
And is this Faith? Behold the strife of Albion &  Luvah
Is great in the east. their spears of blood rage in  the eastern heaven
Urizen is the champion of Albion, they will slay my  Luvah:
And thou O harlot daughter! daughter of despair art  all
This cause of these shakings of my towers on  Euphrates.
Here is the House of Albion, & here is thy secluded  place
And here we have found thy sins: & hence we turn thee  forth.
For all to avoid thee: to be astonishd at thee for thy  sins:
Because thou art the impurity & the harlot: & thy  children!
Children of whoredoms: born for Sacrifice: for the  meat & drink
Offering: to sustain the glorious combat & the battle  & war
That Man may be purified by the death of thy  delusions.
So saying she her dark threads cast over the trembling  River;
And over the valleys; from the hills of Hertfordshire  to the hills
Of Surrey across Middlesex & across Albions House
Of Eternity! pale stood Albion at his eastern  gate,
