44 With one accord in love sublime, & as on Cherubs  wings They Albion surround with kindest violence to bear him  back Against his will thro Loss Gate to Eden: Four-fold;  loud! Their Wings waving over the bottomless Immense: to  bear Their awful charge back to his native home: but Albion  dark, Repugnant; rolld his Wheels backward into Non-Entity Loud roll the Starry Wheels of Albion into the World  of Death And all the Gate of Los, clouded with clouds  redounding from Albions dread Wheels, stretching out spaces immense  between That every little particle of light & air, became  Opake Black & immense. a Rock of difficulty & a Cliff Of black despair; that the immortal Wings labourd  against Cliff after cliff, & over Valleys of despair &  death: The narrow Sea between Albion & the Atlantic  Continent: Its waves of pearl became a boundless Ocean  bottomless, Of grey obscurity, filld with clouds & rocks &  whirling waters And Albions Sons ascending & desending in the horrid  Void. But as the Will must not be bended but in the day of  Divine Power: silent calm & motionless, in the mid-air  sublime. The Family Divine hover around the darkend Albion. Such is the nature of the Ulro: that whatever  enters; Becomes Sexual. & is Created, and Vegetated, and  Born. From Hyde Park spread their vegetating roots beneath  Albion In dreadful pain the Spectrous Uncircumcised  Vegetation. Forming a Sexual Machine: an Aged Virgin Form. In Erins Land toward the north, joint after joint &  burning In love & jealousy immingled & calling it Religion And feeling the damps of death they with one accord  delegated Los Conjuring him by the Highest that he should Watch over  them Till Jesus shall appear: & they gave their power to  Los Naming him the Spirit of Prophecy. calling him  Elijah Strucken with Albions disease they become what they  behold; They assimilate with Albion in pity & compassion: Their Emanations return not: their Spectres rage in  the Deep The Slumbers of Death came over them around the Couch  of Death Before the Gate of Los & in the depths of Non  Entity Among the Furnaces of Los: among the Oaks of  Albion. Man is adjoind to Man by his Emanative portion: Who is Jerusalem in every individual Man: and her Shadow is Vala, builded by the Reasoning power in  Man O search & see: turn your eyes inward: open O thou  World Of Love & Harmony in Man: expand thy ever lovely  Gates. They wept into the deeps a little space at length was  heard The voice of Bath. faint as the voice of the Dead in  the House of  Death 