36
Reuben return'd to his place, in vain he sought  beautiful Tirzah
For his Eyelids were narrowd. & his Nostrils scented  the ground
And Sixty Winters Los raged in the Divisions of  Reuben:
Building the Moon of Ulro. plank by plank & rib by  rib
Reuben slept in the Cave of Adam, and Los folded his  Tongue
Between Lips of mire & clay, then sent him forth over  Jordan
In the love of Tirzah he said Doubt is my food day &  night_
All that beheld him fled howling and gnawed their  tongues
For pain: they became what they beheld In reasonings  Reuben returned
To Heshbon. disconsolate he walkd thro Moab & he  stood
Before the Furnaces of Los in a horrible dreamful  slumber,
On Mount Gilead looking toward Gilgal: and Los  bended
His Ear in a spiral circle outward; then sent him over  Jordan.
The Seven Nations fled before him they became what  they beheld
Hand. Hyle & Coban fled; they became what they  beheld
Gwantock & Peachy hid in Damascus beneath Mount  Lebanon
Brereton & Slade in Egypt. Hutton & Skofeld & Kox
Fled over Chaldea in terror in pains in every  nerve
Kotope & Bowen became what they beheld. fleeing over  the Earth
And the. Twelve Female Emanations fled with them  agonizing.
Jerusalem trembled seeing her Children drivn by Loss  Hammer
In the visions of the dreams of Beulah on the edge of  Non-Entity
Hand stood between Reuben & Merlin. as the Reasoning  Spectre
Stands between the Vegetative Man & his Immortal  Imagination
And the Four Zoa's clouded rage East & West & North &  South
They change their situations, in the Universal  Man.
Albion groans, he sees the Elements divide before his  face.
And England who is Brittannia divided into Jerusalem &  Vala
And Urizen assumes the East, Luvah assumes the  South
In his dark Spectre ravening from his open  Sepulcher
And the Four Zoa's who are the Four Eternal Senses of Man
Became Four Elements separating from the Limbs of Albion
These are their names in the Vegetative Generation

And Accident & Chance were found hidden in Length  Bredth & Highth
And they divided into Four ravening deathlike  Forms
Fairies & Genii & Nymphs & Gnomes of the Elements.
These are States Permanently Fixed by the Divine  Power
The Atlantic Continent sunk round Albions cliffy  shore
And the Sea poured in amain upon the Giants of  Albion
As Los bended the Senses of Reuben Reuben is  Merlin
Exploring the Three States of Ulro; Creation;  Redemption. & Judgment
And many of the Eternal Ones laughed after their  manner
Have you known the Judgment that is arisen among  the
Zoa's of Albion? where a Man dare hardly to  embrace
His own Wife. for the terrors of Chastity that they  call
By the name of Morality, their Daughters govern  all
In hidden deceit! they are Vegetable only fit for  burning,
Art & Science cannot exist but by Naked Beauty  displayd
Then those in Great Eternity who contemplate on  Death
Said thus, What seems to Be: Is; To those to whom
It seems to Be. & is productive of the most  dreadful
Consequences to those to whom it seems to Be: even  of
Torments, Despair, Eternal Death; but the Divine  Mercy
Steps beyond and Redeems Man in the Body of Jesus  Amen
And Length Bredth Highth again Obey the Divine Vision  Hallelujah
