'sincere friend of Mr. Johnson, who is (I have every reason to say)
'both the most generous and honest man I ever knew, and with
'whose interest I should be so averse to interfere that I should wish
'him to have the refusal first of anything before it should be offered to
'me, as I know the value of Mr. Hayley's connexion too well to interfere
'between my best friend and him.' This Phillips spoke with real
affection, and I know you will love him for it, and will also respect
Johnson the more for such testimony; but to balance all this I must,
in duty to my friend Seagrave [the Chichester printer] tell you that
Mr. Rose repeated to me his great opinion of Mr. Johnson's integrity
while we were talking concerning Seagrave's printing: it is but justice
therefore, to tell you that I perceive a determination in the London
booksellers to injure Seagrave in your opinion, if possible. Johnson
may be very honest and very generous, too, where his own interest is
concerned, but I must say that he leaves no stone unturn'd to serve
that interest, and often (I think) unfairly; he always has taken care,
when I have seen him, to rail against Seagrave, and I perceive that
he does the same by Mr. Rose. Mr. Phillips took care to repeat
Johnson's railing to me, and to say that country printers could not
do anything of consequence. Luckily he found fault with the paper
which Cowper's Life is printed on, not knowing that it was furnish'd
by Johnson. I let him run on so far as to say that it was scandalous
and unfit for such a work; here I cut him short by asking if he knew
who furnish'd the paper, he answered, 'I hope Mr. J. did not.' I
assured him that he did, and here he left off; desiring me to tell you
that the Life of Washington was not put to press till the 3rd of this
month (May), and on the 13th he had deliver'd a dozen copies at
Stationers Hall, and by the 16th five hundred were out. This is
swift work if literally true, but I am not apt to believe literally what
booksellers say; and on comparing Cowper with Washington must as-
sert that except paper (which is Johnson's fault) Cowper is far the best,
both as to type and printing. Pray look at Washington as far as
page 177, you will find that the type is smaller than from 177 to 308,
the whole middle of the book being printed with a larger and better
type than the two extremities; also it is carefully hot-pressed. I say
thus much being urged thereto by Mr. Rose's observing some defects
in Seagrave's work, which I conceive were urged upon him by John-
son: and as to the time the booksellers would take to execute any
work, I need only refer to the little job which Mr. Johnson was to get
done for our friend Dally. He promised it in a fortnight, and it is
now three months and is not yet completed. I could not avoid say-
