reached? You would have been pleas'd to see his eyes light up at
the mention of your name.
Mr. Flaxman agrees with me that somewhat more than outline is
necessary to the execution of Romney's designs, because his merit is
eminent in the art of massing his lights and shades. I should
propose to etch them in a rapid but firm manner, somewhat, perhaps,
as I did the Head of Euler; the price I receive for engraving Flax-
man's outlines of *Homer* is five guineas each. I send the Domeni-
chino, which is very neatly done. His merit was but little in light
and shade; outline was his element, and yet these outlines give but a
faint idea of the finished prints from his works, several of the best of
which I have. I send also the French monuments, and inclose with
them a catalogue of Bell's Gallery and another of the Exhibition
which I have *not* yet seen. I mention'd the pictures from Sterne to
Mr. Walker; he says that there were several; one, a garden scene
with uncle Toby and Obadiah planting in the garden; but that of
Lefevre's Death he speaks of as incomparable, but cannot tell where
it now is, as they were scatter'd abroad, being disposed of by means
of a raffle. He supposes it is in Westmoreland; promises to make
every inquiry about it. Accept also of my thanks for Cowper's
third volume, which I got, as you directed, of Mr. Johnson. I have
seen Mr. Rose; he looks, tho' not so well as I have seen him, yet
tolerably, considering the terrible storm he has been thro'! He says
that the last session was a severe labour, indeed it must be so to a
man just out of so dreadful a fever. I also thank you for your very
beautiful little poem on the King's recovery; it is one of the prettiest
things I ever read, and I hope the King will live to fulfil the prophecy
and die in peace: but at present, poor man, I understand he is poorly
indeed, and times threaten worse than ever. I must now express my
sorrow and my hopes for our good Miss Poole, and so take my leave
for the present with the joint love of my good woman, who is still
stiff-knee'd but well in other respects.
I am, dear Sir,
Yours most sincerely,
WILLIAM BLAKE.
