May 4th, 1804. 
DEAR SIR,
I thank you sincerely for Falconer, an admirable Poet, and
the admirable prints to it by Fettler. Whether you intended it or
not, they have given me some excellent hints in engraving; his manner
of working is what I shall endeavour to adopt in many points. I
have seen the elder Mr. Walker. He knew and admired without any
preface, my print of Romney, and when his daughter came in he
gave the print into her hand without a word, and she immediately
said, 'Ah! Romney! younger than I have known him, but very like
indeed.' Mr. Walker showed me Romney's first attempt at oil paint-
ing; it is a copy from a Dutch picture—Dutch boor smoking; on the
back is written, 'This was the first attempt at oil painting by
G. Romney.' He shew'd me also the last performance of Romney.
It is of Mr. Walker and family, the draperies put in by somebody
else. It is a very excellent picture, but unfinished. The figures as
large as life, half length, Mr. W., three sons, and I believe two
daughters, with maps, instruments, &c. Mr. Walker also shew'd me
a portrait of himself (W.), whole length on a canvas about two feet
by one and a half; it is the first portrait Romney ever painted.
But above all, a picture of Lear and Cordelia, when he awakes and
knows her,—an incomparable production which Mr. W. bought for
five shillings at a broker's shop; it is about five feet by four, and
exquisite for expression, indeed it is most pathetic; the heads of
Lear and Cordelia can never be surpassed, and Kent and the other
attendant are admirable; the picture is very highly finished. Other
things I saw of Romney's first works,—two copies, perhaps from
Borgognone, of battles; and Mr. Walker promises to collect all he
can of information for you. I much admired his mild and gentle,
benevolent manners; it seems as if all Romney's intimate friends
were truly amiable and feeling like himself.
I have also seen Alderman Boydel, who has promised to get the
number and prices of all Romney's prints as you desired. He has
sent a Catalogue of all his Collection, and a Scheme of his Lottery;
desires his compliments to you, says he laments your absence from
London, as your advice would be acceptable at all times but especially
at the present. He is very thin and decay'd, and but the shadow of
what he was; so he is now a Shadow's Shadow; but how can we expect
a very stout man at eighty-five, which age he tells me he has now
