48 To bathe in the Waters of Life; to wash off the Not Human I come in Self-annihilation & the grandeur of Inspiration To cast off Rational Demonstration by Faith in the Saviour To cast off the rotten rags of Memory by Inspiration To cast off Bacon. Locke & Newton from Albions covering  To take off his filthy garments. & clothe him with Imagination To cast aside from Poetry. all that is not Inspiration That it no longer shall dare to mock with the aspersion of Madness Cast on the Inspired, by the tame high finisher of paltry Blots, Indefinite. or paltry Rhymes; or paltry Harmonies. Who creeps into State Government like a catterpiller to destroy To cast off the idiot Questioner who is always questioning, But never capable of answering: who sits with a sly grin Silent plotting when to question, like a thief in a cave: Who publishes doubt & calls it knowledge: whose Science is Despair Whose pretence to knowledge is Envy: whose whole Science is To destroy the wisdom of ages to gratify ravenous Envy, That rages round him like a Wolf day & night without rest He smiles with condescension; he talks of Benevolence & Virtue And those who act with Benevolence & Virtue, they murder time on tim These are the destroyers of Jerusalem. these are the murderers Of Jesus, who deny the Faith & mock at Eternal Life: Who pretend to Poetry that they may destroy Imagination; By imitation of Natures Images drawn from Remembrance These are the Sexual Garments, the Abomination of Desolation Hiding the Human Lineaments as with an Ark & Curtains Which Jesus rent: & now shall wholly purge away with Fire Till Generation is swallowd up in Regeneration. Then trembled the Virgin Ololon & replyd in clouds of despair Is this our Femine Portion the Six-fold Miltonic Female Terribly this Portion trembles before thee O awful Man Altho' our Human Power can sustain the severe contentions Of Friendship, our Sexual cannot: but flies into the Ulro. Hence arose all our terrors in Eternity! & now remembrance Returns upon us! are we Contraries O Milton, Thou & I O Immortal; how were we led to War the Wars of Death Is this the Void Outside of Existence, which if enterd into 