28 For in this Period the Poets Work is Done: and all the Great Events of Time start forth & are concievd in such a Period Within a Moment: a Pulsation of the Artery. The Sky is an immortal Tent built by the Sons of Los And every Space that a Man views around his dwelling-place. Standing on his own roof, or in his garden on a mount Of twenty-five cubits in height. such space is his Universe; And on its verge the Sun rises & sets. the Clouds bow To meet the flat Earth & the Sea in such an orderd Space: The Starry heavens reach no further but here bend and set On all sides & the two Poles turn on their valves of gold: And if he move his dwelling-place. his heavens also move. Wher'eer he goes & all his neighbourhood bewail his loss: Such are the Spaces called Earth & such its dimension: As to that false appearance which appears to the reasoner. As of a Globe rolling thro Voidness, it is a delusion of Ulro The Microscope knows not of this nor the Telescope, they alter The ratio of the Spectators Organs but leave Objects untouchd For every Space larger than a red Globule of Mans blood. Is visionary: and is created by the Hammer of Los And every Space smaller than a Globule of Mans blood. opens Into Eternity of which this vegetable Earth is but a shadow; The red Globule is the unwearied Sun by Los created To measure Time and Space to mortal Men. every morning. Bowlahoola & Allamanda are placed on each side Of that Pulsation & that Globule, terrible their power. But Rintrah & Palamabron govern over Day & Night In Allamanda & Entuthon Benython where Souls wail: Where Orc incessant howls burning in fires of Eternal Youth. Within the vegetated mortal Nerves; for every Man born is joined Within into One mighty Polypus. and this Polypus is Orc. But in the Optic vegetative Nerves Sleep was transformed To Death in old time by Satan the father of Sin & Death And Satan is the Spectre of Orc & Orc is the generate Luvah But in the Nerves of the Nostrils. Accident being formed Into Substance & Principle, by the cruelties of Demonstration It became Opake & Indefinite; but the Divine Saviour, Formed it into a Solid by Loss Mathematic power. He named the Opake Satan: he named the Solid Adam And in the Nerves of the Ear. (for the Nerves of the Tongue are closed) On Albions Rock Los stands creating the glorious Sun each morning And when unwearied in the evening he creates the Moon Death to delude, who all in terror at their splendor leaves His prey while Los appoints, & Rintrah & Palamabron guide The Souls clear from the Rock of Death. that Death himself may wake In his appointed season when the ends of heaven meet. Then Los conducts the Spirits to be Vegetated. into Great Golgonooza, free from the four iron pillars of Satans Throne (Temperance, Prudence, Justice, Fortitude, the four pillars of tyranny) That Satans Watch-Fiends touch them not before they Vegetate. But Enitharmon and her Daughters take the pleasant charge. To give them to their lovely heavens till the Great Judgment Day Such is their lovely charge. But Rahab & Tirzah pervert Their mild influences. therefore the Seven Eyes of God walk round The Three Heavens of Ulro, where Tirzah & her Sisters Weave the black Woof of Death upon Entuthon Benython In the Vale of Surrey where Horeb terminates in Rephaun. (gore The stamping feet of Zelophehads Daughters are coverd with Human Upon the treddles of the Loom, they sing to the winged shuttle: The River rises above his banks to wash the Woof: He takes it in his arms: he passes it in strength thro his current The veil of human miseries is woven over the Ocean From the Atlantic to the Great South Sea. the Erythrean. Such is the World of Los the labour of six thousand years. Thus Nature is a Vision of the Science of the Elohim. End of the First Book. 