23 Of Palamabrons Harrow, & of Rintrahs wrath & fury; Reuben & Manazzoth & Gad & Simeon & Levi, And Ephraim & Judah were Generated. because They left me, wandering with Tirzah: Enitharmon wept One thousand years, and all the Earth was in a watry deluge We calld him Menassheh because of the Generations of Tirzah Because of Satan; & the Seven Eyes of God continually Guard round them. but I the Fourth Zoa am also set The Watchman of Eternity, the Three are not! & I am preserved Still my four mighty ones are left to me in Golgonooza  Still Rintrah fierce. and Palamabron mild & piteous Theotormon filld with care, Bromion loving Science You O my Sons still guard round Los.  O wander not & leave me Rintrah. thou well rememberest when Amalek & Canaan Fled with their Sister Moab into that abhorred Void They became Nations in our sight beneath the hands of Tirzah, And Palamabron thou rememberest when Joseph an infant: Stolen from his nurses cradle wrapd in needle-work Of emblematic texture. was sold to the Amalekite. Who carried him down into Egypt where Ephraim & Menassheh Gatherd my Sons together in the Sands of Midian And if you also flee away and leave your Fathers side, Following Milton into Ulro, altho your power is great Surely you also shall become poor mortal vegetations Beneath the Moon of Ulro: pity then your Fathers tears When Jesus raisd Lazarus from the Grave I stood & saw Lazarus who is the Vehicular Body of Albion the Redeemd Arise into the Covering Cherub who is the Spectre of Albion By martyrdoms to suffer: to watch over the Sleeping Body. Upon his Rock beneath his Tomb. I saw the Covering Cherub Divide Four-fold into Four Churches when Lazarus arose Paul, Constantine, Charlemaine, Luther; behold they stand before us Stretchd over Europe & Asia. come O Sons, come. come away Arise O Sons give all your strength against Eternal Death Lest we are vegetated, for Cathedrons Looms weave only Death A Web of Death: & were it not for Bowlahoola & Allamanda No Human Form but only a Fibrous Vegetation A Polypus of soft affections without Thought or Vision Must tremble in the Heavens & Earths thro all the Ulro space Throw all the Vegetated Mortals into Bowlahoola But as to this Elected Form who is returnd again He is the Signal that the Last Vintage now approaches Nor Vegetation may go on till all the Earth is reapd So Los spoke, Furious they descended to Bowlahoola & Allamanda Indignant. unconvincd by Loss arguments & thuners rolling They saw that wrath now swayd and now pity absorbd him As it was, so it remaind & no hope of an end. Bowlahoola is namd Law. by mortals, Tharmas founded it: Because of Satan, before Luban in the City of Golgonooza. But Golgonooza is namd Art & Manufacture by mortal men. In Bowlahoola Los's Anvils stand & his Furnaces rage; Thundering the Hammers beat & the Bellows blow loud Living self moving mourning lamenting & howling incessantly Bowlahoola thro all its porches feels tho' too fast founded Its pillars & porticoes to tremble at the force Of mortal or immortal arm: and softly lilling flutes Accordant with the horrid labours make sweet melody The Bellows are the Animal Lungs: the Hammers the Animal Heart The Furnaces the Stomach for digestion. terrible their fury Thousands & thousands labour. thousands play on instruments Stringed or fluted to ameliorate the sorrows of slavery Loud sport the dancers in the dance of death. rejoicing in carnage The hard dentant Hammers are lulld by the flutes lula lula The bellowing Furnaces blare by the long sounding clarion The double drum drowns howls & groans, the shrill fife. shrieks & cries: The crooked horn mellows the hoarse raving serpent, terrible, but harmonious Bowlahoola is the Stomach in every individual man. Los is by mortals nam'd Time Enitharmon is nam'd Space But they depict him bald & aged who is in eternal youth All powerful and his locks flourish like the brows of morning He is the Spirit of Prophecy the ever apparent Elias Time is the mercy of Eternity; without Times swiftness Which is the swiftest of all things; all were eternal torment: All the Gods of the Kingdoms of Earth labour in Los's Halls. Every one is a fallen Son of the Spirit of Prophecy He is the Fourth Zoa, that stood aroud the Throne Divine. 