21 Tho driven away with the Seven Starry Ones into the Ulro Yet the Divine Vision remains Every-where For-ever. Amen. And Ololon lamented for Milton with a great lamentation. While Los heard indistinct in fear, what time I bound my sandals On; to walk forward thro' Eternity, Los descended to me: And Los behind me stood; a terrible flaming Sun: just close Behind my back; I turned round in terror, and behold. Los stood in that fierce glowing fire; & he also stoop'd down And bound my sandals on in Udan-Adan; trembling I stood Exceedingly with fear & terror, standing in the Vale Of Lambeth: but he kissed me and wishd me health. And I became One Man with him arising in my strength: Twas too late now to recede.  Los had enterd into my soul: His terrors now posses'd me whole! I arose in fury & strength. I am that Shadowy Prophet who Six Thousand Years ago Fell from my station in the Eternal bosom.  Six Thousand Years Are finishd.  I return! both Time & Space obey my will. I in Six Thousand Years walk up and down; for not one Moment Of Time is lost, nor one Event of Space unpermanent But all remain: every fabric of Six Thousand Years Remains permanent; tho' on the Earth where Satan Fell, and was cut off all things vanish & are seen no more They vanish not from me & mine, we guard them first & last The generations of men run on in the tide of Time But leave their destind lineaments permanent for ever & ever. So spoke Los as we went along to his supreme abode Rintrah and Palamabron met us at the Gate of Golgonooza Clouded with discontent. & brooding in their minds terrible things They said. O Father most beloved: O merciful Parent! Pitying and permitting evil, tho strong & mighty to destroy. Whence is this Shadow terrible? wherefore dost thou refuse To throw him into the Furnaces: knowest thou not that he Will unchain Orc? & let loose Satan. Og. Sihon & Anak. Upon the Body of Albion? for this he is come; behold it written Upon his fibrous left Foot black; most dismal to our eyes  The Shadowy Female shudders thro' heaven in torment inexpressible: And all the Daughters of Los prophetic wail; yet in deceit. They weave a new Religion from new Jealousy of Theotormon! Miltons Religion is the cause; there is no end to destruction! Seeing the Churches at their Period in terror & despair: Rahab created Voltaire: Tirzah created Rousseau: Asserting the Self-righteousness against the Universal Saviour, Mocking the Confessors & Martyrs. claiming Self-righteousness; With cruel Virtue: making War upon the Lambs Redeemed; To perpetuate War & Glory. to perpetuate the Laws of Sin: They perverted Swedenborgs Visions in Beulah & in Ulro; To destroy Jerusalem as a Harlot & her Sons as Reprobates; To raise up Mystery the Virgin Harlot Mother of War. Babylon the Great, the Abomination of Desolation: O Swedenborg; strongest of men. the Samson shorn by the Churches! Shewing the Transgresors in Hell, the proud Warriors in Heaven: Heaven as a Punisher & Hell as One under Punishment; With Laws from Plato & his Greeks to renew the Trojan Gods, In Albion; & to deny the value of the Saviours blood, But then I rais'd up Whitefield, Palamabron raisd up Westley. And these are the cries of the Churches before the two Witnesses, Faith in God the dear Saviour who took on the likeness of men: Becoming obedient to death, even the death of the Cross The Witnesses lie dead in the Street of the Great City No Faith is in all the Earth: the Book of God is trodden under Foot: He sent his two Servants Whitefield & Westley; were they Prophets Or were they Idiots or Madmen? shew us Miracles! Can 