25 Can you have greater Miracles than these? Men who devote Their lifes whole comfort to intire scorn & injury & death Awake thou sleeper on the Rock of Eternity Albion awake  The trumpet of Judgment hath twice sounded; all Nations are awake But thou art still heavy and dull: Awake Albion awake! Lo Orc arises on the Atlantic. Lo his blood and fire Glow on Americas shore: Albion turns upon his Couch He listens to the sounds of War, astonishd and confounded: He weeps into the Atlantic deep, yet still in dismal dreams Unwakend: and the Covering Cherub advances from the East; How long shall we lay dead in the Street of the great City How long beneath the Covering Cherub give our Emanations Milton will utterly consume us & thee our beloved Father He hath enterd into the Covering Cherub. becoming one with Albions dread Sons, Hand. Hyle & Coban surround him as A girdle; Gwendolen & Conwenna as a garment woven Of War & Religion: let us descend & bring him chained To Bowlahoola O father most beloved: O mild Parent! Cruel in thy mildness. pitying and permitting evil Tho strong and mighty to destroy, O Los our beloved Father! Like the black storm, coming out of Chaos, beyond the stars: It issues thro the dark & intricate caves of the Mundane Shell Passing the planetary visions, & the well adorned Firmament The Sun rolls into Chaos & the Stars into the Desarts; And then the storms become visible. audible & terrible. Covering the light of day. & rolling down upon the mountains, Deluge all the country round.  Such is a vision of Los; When Rintrah & Palamabron spoke: and such his stormy face Appeard, as does the face of heaven, when coverd with thick storms Saying and loving tho in frowns of terrible perturbation But Los dispersd the clouds even as the strong winds of Jehovah. And Los thus spoke. O noble Sons. be patient yet a little I have embracd the falling Death, he is become One with me O Sons we live not by wrath. by mercy alone we live! I recollect an old Prophecy in Eden recorded in gold; and oft Sung to the harp: That Milton of the land of Albion. Should up ascend forward from Felphams Vale & break the Chain Of Jealousy from all its roots; be patient therefore O my Sons These lovely Females form sweet night and silence and secret Obscurities to hide from Satans Watch-Fiends. Human loves And graces; lest they write them in their Books, & in the Scroll Of mortal life, to condemn the accused: who at Satans Bar Tremble in Spectrous Bodies continually day and night While on the Earth they live in sorrowful Vegetations O when shall we tread our Wine-presses in heaven; and Reap Our wheat with shoutings of joy, and leave the Earth in peace Remember how Calvin and Luther in fury premature Sow'd War and stern division between Papists & Protestants Let it not be so now: O go not forth in Martyrdoms & Wars We were plac'd here by the Universal Brotherhood & Mercy With powers fitted to circumscribe this dark Satanic death And that the Seven Eyes of God may have space for Redemption. But how this is as yet we know not. and we cannot know; Till Albion is arisen: then patient wait a little while, Six Thousand years are passd away the end approaches fast; This mighty one is come from Eden, he is of the Elect. Who died from Earth & he is returnd before the Judgment, This thing Was never known that one of the holy dead should willing return Then patient wait a little while till the Last Vintage is over: Till we have quenchd the Sun of Salah in the Lake of Udan Adan O my dear Sons! leave not your Father, as your brethren left me Twelve Sons successive fled away in that thousand years of sorrow 