6
Mean while wept Satan before Los. accusing Palamabron;
Himself exculpating with mildest speech, for himself believ'd
That he had not opress'd nor injur'd the refractory servants.
But Satan returning to his Mills (for Palamabron had serv'd
The Mills of Satan as the easier task) found all confusion,
And back return'd to Los. not fill'd with vengeance but with tears.
Himself convinc'd of Palamabrons turpitude, Los beheld
The servants of the Mills drunken with wine and dancing wild.
With shouts and Palamabrons songs, rending the forests green
With ecchoing confusion, tho' the Sun was risen on high.
Then Los took off his left sandal placing it on his head.
Signal of solemn mourning: when the servants of the Mills
Beheld the signal they in silence stood. tho' drunk with wine.
Los wept! But Rintrah also came, and Enitharmon on
His arm lean'd tremblingly observing all these things.
And Los said. Ye Genii of the Mills: the Sun is on high
Your labours call you! Palamabron is also in sad dilemma;
His horses are mad! his Harrow confounded! his companions enragd.
Mine is the fault! I should have remember'd that pity divides the soul
And, man, unmans: follow with me my Plow, this mournful day
Must be a blank in Nature; follow with me, and tomorrow again
Resume your labours, & this day shall be a mournful day
Wildly they follow'd Los and Rintrah, & the Mills were silent
They mourn'd all day this mournful day of Satan & Palamabron;
And all the Elect & all the Redeem'd mourn'd one toward another
Upon the mountains of Albion among the cliffs of the Dead.
They Plow'd in tears! incessant pourd Jehovahs rain. & Molechs
Thick fires contending with the rain, thunder'd above rolling
Terrible over their heads; Satan wept over Palamabron
Theotormon & Bromion contended on the side of Satan
Pitying his youth and beauty; trembling at eternal death;
Michael contended against Satan in the rolling thunder
Thulloh the friend of Satan also reprovd him; faint their reproof.
But Rintrah who is of the reprobate: of those Form'd to destruction
In indignation, for Satans soft dissimulation of friendship! 
Flam'd above all the plowed furrows, angry red and furious.
Till Michael sat down in the furrow weary dissolv'd in tears
Satan who drave the team beside him, stood angry & red
He smote Thulloh & slew him, & he stood terrible over Michael
Urging him to arise: he wept! Enitharmon saw his tears
But Los hid Thulloh from her sight, lest she should die of grief
She wept; she trembled! she kissed Satan; she wept over Michael
She form'd a Space for Satan & Michael & for the poor infected
Trembling she wept over the Space, & clos'd it with a tender Moon
Los secret buried Thulloh, weeping disconsolate over the moony Space 
But Palamabron called down a Great Solemn Assembly,
That he who will not defend Truth. may be compelled to
Defend a Lie, that he may be snared & caught & taken
