32*
And Milton oft sat up on the Couch of Death & oft conversed
In vision & dream beatific with the Seven Angels of the Presence
I have turned my back upon these Heavens builded on cruelty
My Spectre still wandering thro' them follows my Emanation
He hunts her footsteps thro' the snow & the wintry hail & rain
The idiot Reasoner laughs at the Man of Imagination
And from laughter proceeds to murder by undervaluing calumny
Then Hillel who is Lucifer replied over the Couch of Death
And thus the Seven Angels instructed him & thus they converse.
We are not Individuals but States: Combinations of Individuals
We were Angels of the Divine Presence: & were Druids in Annandale
Compelld to combine into Form by Satan. the Spectre of Albion.   כֹ
Who made himself a God & destroyed the Human Form Divine   רבים 
But the Divine Humanity & Mercy gave us a Human Form  (as multitudes
Because we were combind in Freedom & holy Brotherhood  Vox Populi
While those combind by Satans Tyranny first in the blood of War
And Sacrifice & next. in Chains of imprisonment: are Shapeless Rocks
Retaining only Satans Mathematic Holiness Length: Bredth & Highth
Calling the Human Imagination: which is the Divine Vision & Fruition
In which Man liveth eternally: madness & blasphemy. against
Its own Qualities. which are Servants of Humanity. not Gods or Lords
Distinguish therefore States from Individuals in those States.
States change: but Individual Identities never change nor cease:
You cannot go to Eternal Death in that which can never Die.
Satan & Adam are States Created into Twenty-seven Churches,
And thou O Milton art a State about to be Created
Called Eternal Annihilation that none but the Living shall
Dare to enter: & they shall enter triumphant over Death
And Hell & the Grave: States that are not. but ah! Seem to be.
Judge then of thy Own Self; thy Eternal Lineaments explore
What is Eternal & what Changeable? & what Annihilable!
The Imagination is not a State: it is The Human Existence itself
Affection or Love becomes a State, when divided from Imagination
The Memory is a State always. & the Reason is a State
Created to be Annihilated & a new Ratio Created
Whatever can be Created can be Annihilated Forms cannot
The Oak is cut down by the Ax. the Lamb falls by the Knife
But their Forms Eternal Exist, For-ever. Amen Halleujah
Thus they converse with the Dead watching round the Couch of Death.
For God himself enters Death's Door always with those that enter
And lays down in the Grave with them, in Visions of Eternity
Till they awake & see Jesus & the Linen Clothes lying
That the Females had Woven for them. & the Gates of their Fathers House
