41 The Virgin answerd. Knowest thou of Milton who descended Driven from Eternity; him I seek! terrified at my Act In Great Eternity which thou knowest! I come him to seek So Ololon utterd in words distinct the anxious thought Mild was the voice, but more distinct than any earthly That Miltons Shadow heard & condensing all his Fibres Into a strength impregnable of majesty & beauty infinite I saw he was the Covering Cherub & within him Satan And Rahah, in an outside which is fallacious! within Beyond the outline of Identity, in the Selfhood deadly And he appeard the Wicker Man of Scandinavia in whom Jerusalems children consume in flames among the Stars Descending down into my Garden, a Human Wonder of God Reaching from heaven to earth a Cloud & Human Form I beheld Milton with astonishment & in him beheld The Monstrous Churches of Beulah, the Gods of Ulro dark Twelve monstrous dishumanizd terrors Synagogues of Satan. A Double Twelve & Thrice Nine: such their divisions. And these their Names & their Places within the Mundane Shell In Tyre & Sidon I saw Baal & Ashtaroth.  In Moab Chemosh In Ammon, Molech: loud his Furnaces rage among the Wheels Of Og, & pealing loud the cries of the Victims of Fire: And pale his Priestesses infolded in Veils of Pestilence. border'd With War: Woven in Looms of Tyre & Sidon by beautiful Ashtaroth. In Palestine Dagon, Sea Monster! worshipd o'er the Sea. Thammuz in Lebanon & Rimmon in Damascus curtaind Osiris; Isis: Orus: in Egypt: dark their Tabernacles on Nile Floating with solemn songs, & on the Lakes of Egypt nightly With pomp, even till morning break & Osiris appear in the sky But Belial of Sodom & Gomorrha. obscure Demon of Bribes  And secret Assasinations, not worshipd nor adord: but With the finger on the lips & the back turnd to the light And Saturn Jove & Rhea of the Isles of the Sea remote These Twelve Gods, are the Twelve Spectre Sons of the Druid Albion And these the Names of the Twenty-seven Heavens & their Churches Adam. Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel. Jared, Enoch. Methuselah, Lamech: these are Giants mighty Hermaphroditic Noah, Shem, Arphaxad, Cainan the second, Salah. Heber. Peleg. Reu, Serug, Nahor, Terah, these are the Female-Males A Male within a Female hid as in an Ark & Curtains. Abraham, Moses, Solomon, Paul. Constantine. Charlemaine Luther, these seven are the Male-Females, the Dragon Forms Religion hid in War, a Dragon red & hidden Harlot All these are seen in Miltons Shadow who is the Covering Cherub The Spectre of Albion in which the Spectre of Luvah inhabits In the Newtonian Voids between the Substances of Creation For the Chaotic Voids outside of the Stars are measured by The Stars, which are the boundaries of Kingdoms, Provinces And Empires of Chaos invisible to the Vegetable Man The Kingdom of Og. is in Orion: Sihon is in Ophiucus Og has Twenty-seven Districts; Sihons Districts Twenty-one From Star to Star, Mountains & Valleys, terrible dimension Stretchd out, compose the Mundane Shell, a mighty Incrustation Of Forty-eight deformed Human Wonders of the Almighty With Caverns whose remotest bottoms meet again beyond The Mundane Shell in Golgonooza, but the Fires of Los. rage In the remotest bottoms of the Caves. that none can pass Into Eternity that way, but all descend to Los To Bowlahoola & Allamanda & to Entuthon Benython The Heavens are the Cherub, the Twelve Gods are Satan 