9 And all Eden descended into Palamabrons tent Among Albions Druids & Bards, in the caves beneath Albions Death Couch, in the caverns of death. in the corner of the Atlantic. And in the midst of the Great Assembly Palamabron pray'd: O God protect me from my friends. that they have not power over me Thou hast giv'n me power to protect myself from my bitterest enemies. Mark well my words, they are of your eternal salvation Then rose the Two Witnesses. Rintrah & Palamabron: And Palamabron appeal'd to all Eden, and recievd Judgment; and Lo; it fell on Rintrah and his rage: Which now flam'd high & furious in Satan against Palamabron Till it became a proverb in Eden.  Satan is among the Reprobate. Los in his wrath curs'd heaven & earth, he rent up Nations Standing on Albions rocks among high-reard Driud temples Which reach the stars of heaven & stretch from pole to pole, He displacd continents, the oceans fled before his face He alter'd the poles of the world, east. west & north & south But he clos'd up Enitharmon from the sight of all these things For Satan flaming with Rintrahs fury hidden beneath his own mildness Accus'd Palamabron before the Assembly of ingratitude! of malice; He created Seven deadly Sins drawing out his infernal scroll. Of Moral laws and cruel punishments upon the clouds of Jehovah To pervert the Divine voice in its entrance to the earth With thunder of war & trumpets sound, with armies of disease Punishments & deaths musterd & number'd; Saying I am God alone  There is no other! let all obey my principles of moral individuality I have brought them from the uppermost innermost recesses Of my Eternal Mind, transgressors I will rend off for ever, As now I rend this accursed Family from my covering. Thus Satan rag'd amidst the Assembly! and his bosom grew Opake against the Divine Vision; the paved terraces of His bosom inwards shone with fires. but the stones becoming opake: Hid him from sight. in an extreme blackness and darkness, And there a World of deeper Ulro was open'd, in the midst Of the Assembly. In Satans bosom a vast unfathomable Abyss.  Astonishment held the Assembly in an awful silence; and tears Fell down as dews of night. & a loud solemn universal groan Was utter'd from the east & from the west & from the south And from the north! and Satan stood opake immeasurable Covering the east with solid blackness, round his hidden heart With thunders utterd from his hidden wheels; accusing loud The Divine Mercy. for protecting Palamabron in his tent, Rintrah rear'd up walls of rocks and pourd rivers & moats Of fire round the walls: columns of fire guard around Between Satan and Palamabron in the terrible darkness. And Satan not having the Science of Wrath, but only of Pity; Rent them asunder, and wrath was left to wrath. & pity to pity. He sunk down a dreadful Death, unlike the slumbers of Beulah The Separation was terrible; the Dead was repos'd on his Couch Beneath the Couch of Albion. on the seven moutains of Rome  In the whole place of the Covering Cherub. Rome Babylon & Tyre. His Spectre raging furious descended into its Space 