12 According to the inspiration of the Poetic Genius Who is the eternal all-protecting Divine Humanity To whom be Glory & Power & Dominion Evermore Amen Then there was great murmuring in the Heavens of Albion Concerning Generation & the Vegetative power & concerning The Lamb the Saviour: Albion trembled to Italy Greece & Egypt To Tartary & Hindostan & China & to Great America Shaking the roots & fast foundations of the Earth in doubtfulness The loud voic'd Bard terrify'd took refuge in Miltons bosom Then Milton rose up from the heavens of Albion ardorous! The whole Assembly wept prophetic, seeing in Miltons face And in his lineaments divine the shades of Death & Ulro He took off the robe of the promise. & ungirded himself from the oath of God And Milton said, I go to Eternal Death! The Nations still Follow after the detestable Gods of Priam; in pomp Of warlike selfhood. contradicting and blaspheming. When will the Resurrection come; to deliver the sleeping body From corruptibility; O when Lord Jesus wilt thou come? Tarry no longer; for my soul lies at the gates of death. I will arise and look forth for the morning of the grave. I will go down to the sepulcher to see if morning breaks! I will go down to self annihilation and eternal death, Lest the Last Judgment come & find me unannihilate And I be siez'd & giv'n into the hands of my own Selfhood The Lamb of God is seen thro' mists & shadows, hov'ring Over the sepulchers in clouds of Jehovah & winds of Elohim A disk of blood, distant; & heav'ns & earth's roll dark between What do I here before the Judgment? without my Emanation? With the daughters of memory, & not with the daughters of inspiration I in my Selfhood am that Satan: I am that Evil One! He is my Spectre! in my obedience to loose him from my Hells To claim the Hells, my Furnaces, I go to Eternal Death. And Milton said. I go to Eternal Death; Eternity shudder'd For he took the outside course, among the graves of the dead A mournful shade, Eternity shudderd at the image of eternal death Then on the verge of Beulah he beheld his own Shadow; A mournful form double; hermaphroditic: male & female In one wonderful body, and he enterd into it In direful pain for the dread shadow, twenty-seven-fold Reachd to the depths of direst Hell, & thence to Albions land: Which is this earth of vegetation on which now I write. The Seven Angels of the Presence wept over Miltons Shadow: 