17 As when a man dreams, he reflects not that his body sleeps. Else he would wake; so seem'd he entering his Shadow: but With him the Spirits of the Seven Angels of the Presence Entering; they gave him still perceptions of his Sleeping Body: Which now arose and walk'd with them in Eden, as an Eighth Image Divine tho' darken'd; and tho walking as one walks In sleep: and the Seven comforted and supported him. Like as a Polypus that vegetates beneath the deep: They saw his Shadow vegetated underneath the Couch Of death: for when he enterd into his Shadow: Himself: His real and immortal Self; was as appeard to those Who dwell in immortality, as One sleeping on a couch Of gold: and those in immortality gave forth their Emanations Like Females of sweet beauty. to guard round him & to feed His lips with food of Eden in his cold and dim repose: But to himself he seemd a wanderer lost in dreary night. Onwards his Shadow kept its course among the Spectres; call'd Satan, but swift as lightning passing them. startled the shades Of Hell beheld him in a trail of light as of a comet That travels into Chaos: so Milton went guarded within. The nature of infinity is this! That every thing, has its Own Vortex; and when once a traveller thro Eternity, Has passd that Vortex, he percieves it roll backward behind His path, into a globe itself infolding: like a sun: Or like a moon, or like a universe of starry majesty. While he keeps onwards in his wondrous journey on the earth Or like a human form, a friend with with whom he livd benevolent. As the eye of man views both the east & west encompassing Its vortex; and the north & south, with all their starry host: Also the rising sun & setting moon he views surrounding His corn-fields and his valleys of five hundred acres square, Thus is the earth one infinite plane, and not as apparent To the weak traveller confin'd beneath the moony shade. Thus is the heaven a vortex passd already, and the earth A vortex not yet pass'd by the traveller thro' Eternity. First Milton saw Albion upon the Rock of Ages, Deadly pale outstretchd and snowy cold, storm coverd: A Giant form of perfect beauty outstretchd on the rock In solemn death. the Sea of Time & Space thunderd aloud Against the rock, which was inwrapped with the weeds of death Hovering over the cold bosom. in its vortex Milton bent down To the bosom of death. what was underneath soon seemd above. A cloudy heaven mingled with stormy seas in loudest ruin; But as a wintry globe descends precipitant thro' Beulah bursting With thunders loud and terrible: so Miltons shadow fell. Precipitant loud thundring into the Sea of Time & Space Then first I saw him in the Zenith as a falling star. Descending perpendicular, swift as the swallow or swift; And on my left foot falling on the tarsus, enterd there; But from my left foot a black cloud redounding spread over Europe. Then Milton knew that the Three Heavens of Beulah were beheld By him on earth in his bright pilgrimage of sixty years 