5 But when the morn arose. her lamentation renewd, The Daughters of Albion hear her woes, & eccho back her sighs. O Urizen! Creator of men! mistaken Demon of heaven; Thy joys are tears! thy labour vain, to form men to thine image. How can one joy absorb another? are not different joys Holy, eternal, infinite! and each joy is a Love. Does not the great mouth laugh at a gift? & the narrow eyelids mock At the labour that is above payment, and wilt thou take the ape For thy councellor? or the dog. for a schoolmaster to thy children? Does he who contemns poverty, and he who turns with abhorrence From usury: feel the same passion or are they moved alike? How can the giver of gifts experience the delights of the merchant? How the industrious citizen the pains of the husbandman. How different far the fat fed hireling with hollow drum; Who buys whole corn fields into wastes, and sings upon the heath: How different their eye and ear! how different the world to them! With what sense does the parson claim the labour of the farmer? What are his nets & gins & traps, & how does he surround him With cold floods of abstraction, and with forests of solitude, To build him castles and high spires, where kings & priests may dwell. Till she who burns with youth, and knows no fixed lot; is bound In spells of law to one she loaths; and must she drag the chain Of life, in weary lust! must chilling murderous thoughts, obscure The clear heaven of her eternal spring! to bear the wintry rage Of a harsh terror driv'n to madness, bound to hold a rod Over her shrinking shoulders all the day; & all the night To turn the wheel of false desire: and longings that wake her womb To the abhorred birth of cherubs in the human form That live a pestilence & die a meteor & are no more. Till the child dwell with one he hates, and do the deed he loaths And the impure scourge force his seed into its unripe birth E'er yet his eyelids can behold the arrows of the day. Does the whale worship at thy footsteps as the hungry dog? Or does he scent the mountain prey, because his nostrils wide Draw in the ocean? does his eye discern the flying cloud As the ravens eye? or does he measure the expanse like the vulture? Does the still spider view the cliffs where eagles hide their young? Or does the fly rejoice. because the harvest is brought in? Does not the eagle scorn the earth & despise the treasures beneath? But the mole knoweth what is there, & the worm shall tell it thee. Does not the worm erect a pillar in the mouldering church yard? 