18
From every-one of the Four Regions of Human Majesty,
There is an Outside spread Without, & an Outside spread Within
Beyond the Outline of Identity both ways. which meet in One:
An orbed Void of doubt, despair. hunger. & thirst & sorrow.
Here the Twelve Sons of Albion. join'd in dark Assembly,
Jealous of Jerusalems children. asham'd of her little-ones
(For Vala produc'd the Bodies. Jerusalem gave the Souls)
Became as Three Immense Wheels, turning upon one-another
Into Non-Entity. and their thunders hoarse appall the Dead
To murder their own Souls, to build a Kingdom among the Dead
Cast! Cast. ye Jerusalem forth! The Shadow of delusions!
The Harlot daughter! Mother of pity and dishonourable forgiveness
Our Father Albions sin and shame! But father now no more!
Nor sons! nor hateful peace & love. nor soft complacencies
With transgressors meeting in brotherhood around the table,
Or in the porch or garden, No more the sinful delights
Of age and youth and boy and girl and animal and herb.
And river and mountain, and city & village, and house & family,
Beneath the Oak & Palm. beneath the Vine and Fig-tree.
In self-denial! _But War and deadly contention, Between
Father and Son, and light and love! All bold asperities
Of Haters met in deadly strife, rending the house & garden
The unforgiving porches, the tables of enmity, and beds
And chambers of trembling & suspition. hatreds of age & youth
And boy & girl, & animal & herb, & river & mountain
And city & village, and house & family. That the Perfect.
May live in glory, redeem'd by Sacrifice of the Lamb
And of his children, before sinful Jerusalem. To build
Babylon the City of Vala, the Goddess Virgin-Mother.
She is our Mother! Nature! Jerusalem is our Harlot-Sister
Return'd with Children of pollution. to defile our House.
With Sin and Shame. Cast! Cast her into the Potters field.
Her little-ones. She must slay upon our Altars: and her aged
Parents must be carried into captivity, to redeem her Soul
To be for a Shame & a Curse, and to be our Slaves for ever
So cry Hand & Hyle the eldest of the fathers of Albions
Little-ones: to destroy the Divine Saviour; the Friend of Sinners.
Building Castles in desolated places, and strong Fortifications.
Soon Hand mightily devour'd & absorb'd Albions Twelve Sons.
Out from his bosom a mighty Polypus. vegetating in darkness.
And Hyle & Coban were his two chosen ones. for Emissaries
In War; forth from his bosom they went and return'd.
Like Wheels from a great Wheel reflected in the Deep.
Hoarse turn'd the Starry Wheels. rending a way in Albions Loins
Beyond the Night of Beulah. In a dark & unknown Night.
Outstretch'd his Giant beauty on the ground in pain & tears;

