11
Sick Couch bears the dark shades of Eternal Death infolding
The Spectre of Satan. he furious refuses to repose in sleep
I humbly bow in all my Sin before the Throne Divine,
Not so the Sick-one; Alas what shall be done him to restore?
Who calls the Individual Law, Holy: and despises the Saviour,
Glorying to involve Albions Body in fires of eternal War - 
Now Leutha ceas'd: tears flow'd: but the Divine Pity supported her.
All is my fault! We are the Spectre of Luvah the murderer
Of Albion; O Vala! O Luvah! O Albion! O lovely Jerusalem
The Sin was begun in Eternity, and will not rest to Eternity
Till two Eternitys meet together, Ah! lost! lost! lost! for ever!
So Leutha spoke. But when she saw that Enitharmon had
Created a New Space to protect Satan from punishment:
She fled to Enitharmons Tent & hid herself. Loud raging
Thunderd the Assembly dark & clouded. and they ratify'd
The kind decision of Enitharmon & gave a Time to the Space,
Even Six Thousand years: and sent Lucifer for its Guard.
But Lucifer refus'd to die & in pride he forsook his charge
And they elected Molech. and when Molech was impatient
The Divine hand found the Two Limits: first of Opacity, then of Contraction
Opacity was named Satan, Contraction was named Adam.
Triple Elohim came: Elohim wearied fainted: they elected Shaddai.
Shaddai angry. Pahad descended: Pahad terrified. they sent Jehovah
And Jehovah was leprous; loud he call'd. stretching his hand to Eternity
For then the Body of Death was perfected in hypocritic holiness.
Around the Lamb, a Female Tabernacle woven in Cathedrons Looms
He died as a Reprobate. he was Punish'd as a Transgressor:
Glory! Glory! Glory! to the Holy Lamb of God
I touch the heavens as an instrument to glorify the Lord!
The Elect shall meet the Redeem'd. on Albions rocks they shall meet
Astonish'd at the Transgressor, in him beholding the Saviour.
And the Elect shall say to the Redeemd. We behold it is of Divine
Mercy alone! of Free Gift and Election that we live.
Our Virtues & Cruel Goodnesses, have deserv'd Eternal Death.
Thus they weep upon the fatal Brook of Albions River.
But Elynittria met Leutha in the place where she was hidden
And threw aside her arrows. and laid down her sounding Bow:
She sooth'd her with soft words & brought her to Palamabrons bed
In moments new created for delusion interwoven round about.
In dreams she bore the shadowy Spectre of Sleep. & namd him Death.
In dreams she bore Rahab the mother of Tirzah & her sisters,
In Lambeths vales: in Cambridge & in Oxford, places of Thought
Intricate labyrinths of Times and Spaces unknown, that Leutha lived
In Palamabrons Tent. and Oothoon was her charming guard.
The Bard ceas'd. All consider'd and a loud resounding murmur
Continu'd round the Halls: and much they question'd the immortal
Loud voicd Bard. and many condemn'd the high tone'd Song
Saying Pity and Love are too venerable for the imputation
Of Guilt. Others said. If it is true! if the acts have been perform'd
Let the Bard himself witness. Where hadst thou this terrible Song 
The Bard replied. I am Inspired! I know it is Truth! for I Sing
